As a kid, I've spent four years living at the seaside. I've always respected sea as the strongest of all the forces of nature and trembled under the attacks of my imagination. What kind of horrors these dark depths hide from puny humans? Years later, Frictional Games delivers the answer - unimaginable horrors and philosophical questions about humanity's own existence.

You're playing the role of Simon, your average, twenty something guy that goes for a brain scan and wakes up... somewhere? That somewhere is PATHOS 2, science station hidden in the vast universe on our planet - below the waves of Atlantic Ocean. You'll take Simon on 8-12 hours journey to depths of watery hell, in an epic struggle to survive and find answers to loads of questions.

If you've played Frictional Games titles before, you know very well what to expect. First person movement, no HUD and you use mouse to interact with objects. It can get clunky from time to time, but it's never dull. Your enemies are strong and there's no way to fight them, so you'll need to crouch and get past them - if you don't like stealth, this game is not for you. The nicest thing about enemies in SOMA is that they are difficult, yet not frustrating and even if you die, you will gladly reload and get back on track.

In my not so humble opinion, SOMA reigns over other FG titles because a) story; b) design and atmosphere; c) sound.

Story may appear to be well known (at least some of its elements) to sci-fi enthusiasts, but it still manages to create a perfect combo with design and atmosphere. I don't want to spoil anything for anyone, therefore, I'll just say SOMA is story-driven experience and it progresses as a fine piece of art, an interactive movie that makes you come back for more once your gaming session is over. The end of the game is emotional and well directed and the emotions you will experience from witnessing the end game are directly influenced by your own opinions about life, achievements and goals.

Design and atmosphere, hands down, game of the year. I'm not sure what kind of games will be launched until the end of 2015 to beat SOMA in this fight. Everything about this game is terrific - sense of loneliness, desperation, isolation. When you first exit dry and enter wet and start walking the ocean floor, you'll experience such a tremendous impact, a fusion of beauty and horror not seen so often in the games like this. When you go even deeper and end up in a violent ocean current, you'll feel nauseated, lost and alone.

Sound. Man, oh man... SOUND. Samuel Justice and his team. I had to google the name of the guy who was in charge of SOMA's sound. Horror games usually let sound engineers play with sounds. Justice and his team did not do that - they've literally ruled the sounds and used them to terify the players. Dry sounds, underwater sounds, mechanical sounds, enemy sounds, voices. Everything is so perfect and binaural, YOU NEED TO PLAY THIS ONE WITH GOOD HEADPHONES. Fantastic sound design, a lot to be learned from these guys. SOMA could prove to be revolutionary in the field of horror games audio design.

Personally, I feel SOMA's the pinnacle of Frictional Games work and they've set up the new standards with this one. The next thing they deliver will be judged heavily by standard known as SOMA.

Buy. Play. Get Scared.
