Frictional lends its physics-based, hide-from-the-monster formula to one hell of a story that still has me pondering. One of the most memorable game experiences I've had in the last several years.

GAMEPLAY: If you've played Amnesia: The Dark Descent or Penumbra: Black Plague, you know what to expect - first person controls, click on objects to pick them up and throw them around, and sneaking around monsters with no combat option, so you'd best get used to hiding. Strangely, most puzzles in the game don't make use of the physics engine as they did in Frictional's previous titles, typically taking the form of using a computer in some form - for example, using hints provided to select the right settings to run a simulation. It's a bit of a disappointment, as it feels like the physics engine is only there because it's a Frictional game - there are only a handful of occasions in which it's used to progress the game. Otherwise, your time will be spent exploring the environment looking for key items to progress the story. It's straightforward and functional.

GRAPHICS: The game looks nice, the underwater effects being particularly noteworthy - murky water is mildly illuminated by blurry lights on the ocean floor, as fish swim around you. The human character models are a bit awkward, having a bit of a robotic quality (which jars a bit against the REAL robots in the game), but there aren't many of them to be seen, so it isn't much of an issue. The environments are richly detailed, full of books, small statues, and other miscellaneous objects that make it all feel much more genuine. It feels like real people inhabited these areas - especially when you find the notes and pictures (which can be picked up and closely examined). My only real issues were a few frame rate drops, and that the facilities suffer from the usual problem of looking somewhat bland. I'm not quite sure who decided that all research facilities have to be completely sterile looking, but I don't blame people for going insane in these places.

AUDIO: A huge variety of sound effects, used effectively - some of my most memorable moments come from screeching radio static and the noises of some of the robots. There was great care put into the sound design, and it shows, adding a more realistic feeling to the game. Music isn't a critical factor, with most of the audio coming in-game - footsteps, rushing water, bumps and bangs, etc.
The voice acting is generally quite good, being emotive and natural sounding, though coming off as a bit stinted in places. Catherine in particular was acted very well, and one robot in particular early in the game gave me my first real shock with its mechanical and distorted, yet human voice.

ENEMIES: Varied and creepy, they do their job and they do it well. Though two I would say are a bit unoriginal, they still provide scares as needed. As noted, you will be sneaking around them rather than fighting, and it works just as well as in previous entries. The biggest problem is that they aren't given a very satisfactory explanation - though it's mentioned how they came to be, a little background story into what made these creatures the way they are individually (each one encountered is very different) would have added a bit to it - even just a memo or a piece of dialogue now and again. As it stands, they feel like a bit of an afterthought, and clash with the tone of the game a bit.

ENVIRONMENTS: The bottom of the ocean is a good setting for a horror (themed) game, and it was a nice change of pace compared to the usual hosptial, old castle, abandoned town, etc. of horror fare. You will be in one of two areas, typically: a laboratory/living quarters, or on the ocean floor, with some extras at the beginning and end of the game. As mentioined, they're very nicely detailed, and give off more of a mystery vibe than outright horror. There isn't a lot of decay and darkness here - they feel alive, or places that hosted life not so long ago. The segments between ocean and laboratory are spaced out pretty nicely, so they don't become tedious, which is important - it keeps the player on their toes, and prevents tediousness (I'm looking squarely at you, Alien: Isolation).

HORROR: This isn't an outright horror game as were the Amnesia and Penumbra titles. It's more horror-THEMED, with emphasis on more sci-fi elements, and there isn't much of the slow, lonely, tension-building oppression of the great horror titles. Which is fine - this game knows what it's doing. In fact, I think that type of horror would have clashed with this game's narrative, which necessitated having a compaion for Simon to work out the mysteries of the game. The horror elements that ARE present, however, are very effective due to their being spaced apart. The player is given time to become comfortable and let down their guard, only to be preyed upon again, a concept which some horror games have somehow failed to grasp (hang your heads in shame, Alien and Evil Within). It won't terrify you like Amnesia, but it's good for some tense scares along the way.

STORY: This is where the game shines. Its story asks tough questions of the player, and asks them to make tough decisions. The narrative has Simon go for a brain scan in relation to an injury, only to re-emerge in a lab on the ocean floor with no clue as to how he got there. As he traverses the facility, he - and the player - will have to (attempt to) discern what it means to be human, among other smaller, related questions. It made me think, and the ending had me sitting and looking at my floor as the credits rolled. It's been quite some time since a game has touched me as SOMA has, and that's what makes it so worthwhile. It's not perfect - there are a few changes I would have made to the pacing, and there's a character that's introduced fairly late in the game that feels like an afterthought - but overall, it's well worth the journey.

Overall, SOMA isn't hugely innovative in terms of gameplay, graphics, etc. But its story is what makes it so worthwhile. It's nice to see Frictional create such a thoughtful and emotional narrative after becoming known for games primarily focused on raw horror. I could recommend this game to just about anyone other than those who are easily scared.