From the makers of one of the most horrifying game series such as Penumbra and Amnesia, comes their new game SOMA.
Which for me..it was a great game no doubt but sadly it just didn't feel as scary or challenging as its previous contestants, which of course I will explain in detail.

SOMA is the story of a simple man named Simon living in Ontario who gets called to do a special project, what he doesn't know is that he is about to embark on a brain scan train ride to hell as he wakes up under the sea in a base all deserted and alone...or is he? As he will now have one chance of saving humanity by going throughout the sea main bases and with the help of a friend, launch the ARK into space.

Gameplay wise it is what you will expect from Frictional Games as you go through the story solving puzzles and avoiding the creatures and experiments within. You are just a powerless bug as your only means of inventory is basically the Omnitool which helps you get around the base to areas that were previously locked or they serve as little hubs with your friend Catherine which you encounter a little later in the game as she will be your only means of contact throughout.
You will spend the time hiding and running from monsters as well as solving the puzzles to advance.

Now let me get the problems out of the way, as I said, in the previous games the monsters were overall creative, smart, and scary. Sorry to say this but in SOMA, these are the most boring and uninterested monsters of all, I do not know if this was only in my game but half of these monsters act like they don't even want to hurt you or kill you at all, I was literally in the half way marker of the game trying to get a elevator chip upgrade while avoiding a "brown fungus gel" monster and when I made noise in the next room in a WELL LIT room and in a corner with OPEN SPACE, he literally pulled a derp move and acted like I wasn't there! I could tell he was probably like 3 feet away from me because your screen will start to glitch rapidly, then all of a sudden I could hear his footsteps move away, because in this game there is no means of hiding anywhere like in Amnesia, you just have to stay in the shadows and run like mad if they do manage to finally kill you.

Another thing that was kind of annoying was that also in previous games you could interact with your enviornment to solve the puzzles like hitting boxes to find extra stuff or moving this ladder to get up a level, well that is sorta taken out in this game as most of the interaction comes from picking up cortext chips and keeping them in a shallow inventory system which by the way, everything must be made of titanium because nothing will ever break, even the glasses. Minor thing to be picky about but yeah.
Also the puzzles in the game are half and half for me, some of them are creative and take a little to figure out while others are just basic kindergarten stuff like "Let's press 3 buttons to line up the monitor perfectly...ohhh!!!"

Now as far as atmosphere goes, SOMA nails it perfectly, it does create such an intense atmosphere and it does make you feel so alone and weak, from the creepy lowly lit halls to the dead bottom of the dark ocean's abyss. Every moment in the atmosphere is very intense looking at what happened to the people of the base.

As for the rest, controls are smoothe and on point, even with running from the creatures and accurate depiction of undersea travels.
Music is once again great and eerie feeling to just dead silence putting you more on edge.
Nice little story that does throw some twists in there as well as an ending that will of course leave you asking, as I won't spoil it.

So overall it does have a couple of flaws but once again, don't get me wrong, it is a very great game that is also an easy win with capturing all of the achievements in one playthrough. Beautiful game with a nice story but sadly just falls flat with goofy monsters, and gameplay that can feel tedious in some parts, that you will probably clock in around 8-10 hours depending on how you play.
So I do recommend this game, if you are a survival horror fan I would give this game a shot.