Want to find out what happens if Bioshock and Alien: Isolation had a baby together?

Review

Soma is a first person psychological survival horror adventure game made by the developer of Amnesia: The Dark Descent. While you are exploring the incredibly well made envoirement -which reminds a lot of Bioshock-, a deep and thrilling story goes along with you.
Because of heavy spoilers I will go through this review without any more information about the story itself. Yet one thing is worth mentioning: Be advised that this game will not leave you in the dark but only reveals the information inch-by-inch what might keep you playing forward till the bitter end. A very positive aspect which makes the game worth playing forward.

As already wrote above the envoirement of Soma really reminds of Bioshock, which isn't a bad thing at all. The illumination and detailed graphics are stunning and no HUD will destroy the wow-effect when you reach new places. Speaking of which: You never feel like you were in that place before. Every new section hides new content to explore and new ways will open for the curiosity of the player. It's worth to inspect every corner no matter how small, it might have burried important information to understand the whole story a bit more.

For the special spine-chilling effect you should use headphones and turn up the volume. Every small tone, a breathing, a step or even whispering will make your hair stand on end in areas which seem to be quiet at first. The english voice acting is remarkable, every sentence is spoke with sensation and you start to get into the spirit of the protagonist and his surroundings.

For those who are used to the controls of Amnesia won't find anything different in Soma. You are able to interact nearly with everything in your proximity with well working physics. From the possibility to open and close doors as slow as you want, to throw away things you find on your way. Only the inventory confuses at the beginning. You can't recourse to it to combine items for a puzzle. Items you have picked up will appear again when you are at the correct place to use it. Caused from this you might stand in a room without knowing what to do. Whatsoever, after a little search in the rooms you will get the conclusion fast and continue with the further course.

It's a deadly hide and seek game with the enemies you encounter. Hide as good as you can but if they see you run for it. It is your only chance to stay alive. This shematics are similar to Alien: Isolation and not everytime a good part of the game. To pass the sections will be a challenge but with a bit of patience you can go on with the story. Don't try to fight them, you will get the short end of the stick.

To cut the long story short

Soma is one of the indie survival horror games that kept my attention from the very second on. Through the fact that this game reveals the story only step by step I didn't want to just close the game to take a break. This game won't frighten you just with simple jump scares. The whole atmosphere appeals crushing - a feeling that every second something could happen. Horrifying sightings make you think about it minutes after and still the story has to go on.

Scoring

Gameplay: 8.0/10.0
Graphics: 9.0/10.0
Controls: 10.0/10.0 (Shematics of Amnesia)
Sounds: 10.0/10.0
Game Length: Aprox. 10 hours
Recommendable: Absolutely recommendable to people who love deep stories with a frightening atmosphere.

All in all: 10.0/10.0