SOMA is a pretty good psychological survival-horror game. It's more like Alien: Isolation in that it builds the tension from the atmosphere of the game, rather than via cheap jump-scare tactics. There's a good story that talks about what it means to live, with talking robots that have the consciousness of their masters. Visuals are decent, while the sound design and voice acting are great.

Even when there's no immediate danger, just listening to the sound gives you the chills. Can never be too sure what lurks around. The tension by way of the audio design is particularly brilliantly done in SOMA.

You can customize your controls fully, there are some graphics options to customize and you can save at any time and exit the game.

Anyway, so far, I have two issues with the game. Both are worth mentioning but still overall my net outlook of the game is positive and that it is worth getting, especially if you like the premise of it.

The first is that the enemies can be frustrating. The first enemy I met was a "big daddy" kind of enemy. Easy to get around him, and I never saw it again so far. Then I think there's an enemy in the water but can't be too sure if that's considered an enemy or not. Anyway, the third one is kinda tricky and I had to brute force my way through. He can sense you electromagnetically, and I'm not sure how to get past. Trial and error took me past the first, and now there's another one of it that I can't seem to get past. So yeah, maybe I'm missing something, but this enemy is kinda frustrating making me try over and over again.

The second is that the graphics optimization is kinda underwhelming. Ok sure, I only have a GTX 750, but for this kind of a "corridor" based linear game, I expect 60fps on reduced settings. But often, being in a static room, my framerate would only be 45-50fps, and many times when moving around it may just be around 40fps. Can't really understand why. It doesn't look particularly amazing or demanding. I run Alien Isolation at 60fps no issues at High settings. The fact that the PS4 version only runs at 30fps (and even then not smoothly) where many other linear "corridor" games run at 60fps shows that the game could have been better optimized.

So yeah, overall it's still a very engrossing and immersive game, with an interesting theme and a good story. If you like narrative-driven games and don't mind some psychological horror elements, give this one a go!