I've been anxiously awaiting this release since I saw the matrix-esque teaser trailer that ended with "Am I… still here?" This is hard sci-fi done right. Deep philosophical themes criss-cross the game, touching several topics that sci-fi fans will recognise. It feels like a Philip K. DlCK story with a touch of Clive Barker horror.

Horror survival and jump scares were never my thing. I played a bit on the old Penumbra series, but never got much out of the stories. Same with Amnesia; as there is only notes to unravel the story, very little character development can take place. The monster(s) often felt like primarily a nuisance., and puzzles convoluted.

This is not a problem with Soma; it does not rely on the notes and audio-logs to tell the story. The dialogue and interaction with other characters give the adventure thick and juicy meat to the tale. The monsters are not crawling everywhere, but play integral part of the story and flesh out the events. In fact, some of the monsters or "enemies" have dialogue. Puzzles have a wide range of types and difficulties, and they always fit with the story-line. Someone else noted that Soma is more "tense" than "scary", and I agree. This is a good thing, but rest assured, I still think my choice of white leather upholstery for my chair may have been a bad decision while playing Soma.

The choice of environment is a breath of fresh air - if you'll pardon the misplaced metaphor. The cramped underwater installations versus the "open" sea-bed give a nice contrast during gameplay, and gives a heightened feeling of realism, compared to similar games that take place in space. However, I don't think I'll be getting any new PADI certificates for quite a while after playing this game ...

A ton of comparisons to other games, movies and books litter the forums, so I won't iterate those. However, one game with similar feel and atmosphere that I can also recommend is the indie game "The Fall".
Some may compare it to "The Talos Principle", but Talos looks more like a cross between "Sophie's World" by Jostein Gaarder and a prequel to "I, Robot", when compared to Soma.

A few minor criticisms: The game is very dark and blurry at times, and the usefulness of the flash light can be a bit hit and miss (out in the sea, it is as useful as high beams on a car in a blizzard). I also kept losing track of the tiny pointer; luckily it changes to something more obvious when you can interact with something, so waving the mouse around like you've got no muscles in the neck will help you find all that you need. Subtitles were also a big help, as some of the dialogue might not be as easy to hear. Being able to click once more on notes to get a plain-text of the blurry chicken scratches left by the people on the installation was a good idea, but I felt like I was missing some zooming possibility a few times.

All in all, this is a MUST HAVE game. A solid 9/10, also for you non-horror gamers. If you're thinking of watching the play-through videos; you won't get a tenth of the experience that you will playing on your own in the dark.

On a side note; I'm a Linux gamer and I was pleasantly surprised to see it work without any major hiccups on Linux.

P.S.: This is one of the few games I think could be adapted into a good movie. Someone get Ridley Scott on the horn, ASAP!