Let me get this straight ahead and confirm that the wait for SOMA was, 100%, well-worth it. Frictional delivers yet another masterpiece. I even dare say they followed the saying: ''There's always room for more.'', after their fantastic Amnesia series.
What we got from them here is one of those existential questioning games... combine that with horror, well-suited atmosphere, incredible sound effects and you get a memorable gem.

SOMA has less enemy encounters than Amnesia, but I say it's for a good cause. What it lacks in terms of monsters, it completely delivers with the story. I'd say they got the perfect balance between hiding and actual advancing through the events. More encounters would have made me forget about the plot and it would have gotten unimmersive.
But when there is a monster showing around, expect it to be a challenging part. No more hiding in a corner and waiting for it to leave as in previous games, as SOMA's creatures are not just randomly going away after a while. They'll stay in your path and you have to carefully progress through the chambers and remember the map, in order to get away safe and sound.

I did mention this is more of an existentional questioning game. I can't dig deeper into details on this one as it would all lead to story-breaking spoilers. Heck, even the premise of it is a spoiler. All I can say is that it successfully made me question what it is to be a human and what distinguishes us from artificial intelligences --robots-- .

What I also loved about it was its length. 13 hours to finish an indie game is nothing short of amazing and I didn't even stay to read all notes and journals. I'll definitely give this game a second playthrough.

The inventory has been massively simplified since Amnesia and the sanity/health system is also changed. Looking at some monsters for too long will give away your position and health can be restored at healing places throughout the journey.

Technically speaking, the game suffers from a poor optimization. I was getting massive frame drops in some places. Visually it does not excel either. But I can get past these issues coming from a small company. On the other side, I haven't encountered many bugs nor grammatical errors and kudos to the developers for taking their time and patching up their game!

*End-game debate incoming (definitely spoilers ahead); please skip to next paragraph for general personal rating if you haven't completed the game yet.*
The feeling that was following me up to the very end was one of déjà vu. There is another game out there that raised the exact same questioning: The Talos Principle. Apocalypse, AI that would replace the mankind and would live through a new aeon? These two games are as if set in the same universe. If you put away the gameplay of them, you will notice that they both follow the same plot.
Is artificial intelligence capable of replacing the human brain? In SOMA, a group of scientists work in projecting it on digital chips. The Talos Principle follows a similar path, with one AI already constructed and left in sleep mode until it proves that it acts and thinks humanlike.
In both games you are playing as a virtual mind placed into a carcass, in order to continue human legacy. Could these two games be set in the same world? The similarities between them are astonishing.
Also, SOMA's concept of replicating someone's mind is extremely intriguing. Are you the first AI copy of Simon after his death? Like in the end of the game, where he is duplicated and a part of him remains alone for an eternity on a wasted planet, while the other rests forever in the ARK, on a digital island.. The main character could very well not be the first copy of his brain awoken.

Pros: + Excellent plot and an overall amazing storyline. The journey that the player takes from the beginning to the end never ceased to amaze me.
+ Incredible sound effects. Not just one time have I thought some environment sounds are actually coming from my room.
+ Perfect mix of horror and story telling.
+ Impressively long while still maintaining to not get boring.
+ Great puzzles that add to the core, just like in the Amnesia series.
+ The atmosphere perfectly blends in.
+ The voice acting is also well-crafted.
+ More types of monsters with different behaviors. They also have some great sound effects implemented, you will hear them if they're wandering on a nearby corridor or if they have detected you.
+ Overall balanced difficulty. Does not make the player replay the same area countless of times due to dying, but is also thought as to not be rushed through with ease.
+ Does continue Frictional's unique horror style.

Neutral: +/- Different system of health and sanity, like shortly described above. Some players may welcome the changes with open arms, while others may dislike it compared to the old one from Amnesia: The Dark Descent.
+/- Depending on everyone's tastes, I suppose the game suffers from a lack of replayability.
+/- Enemy AI. They're not brainless, but nothing amazing about their thinking either.

Cons: - Poor optimization... may encounter frame drops, stutter and even freezes in some areas, even while lowering the settings.
- Infinite battery flashlight. A similar system to the one from older Frictional titles would also suit SOMA better in my opinion and would add to the difficulty.
- Uhm... where's the enemy robots? I was disappointed to only encounter the big machines with flashlights 2 or 3 times and only in the first quarter of the game... They were some great enemies in my opinion and would have surely also suited some other areas.
- Can get extremely frustrating to cope with the visual screen tearing while the monster is chasing you. Later on in the game, you're almost always getting caught by it if he sees you, anyway.

SOMA is a must for anyone that loved Frictional's other games. For the others, this is a great decision if you're looking for a thrilling story with scary elements and atmosphere. I definitely not regret pre-ordering this one and I want to thank the developers for bringing in another masterpiece to Steam.

Personal rating: 91/100 - Amazing