A good game let down by it's abysmal AI.

I really enjoyed SOMA. It truly is an experience and tells a really good story. The characters compliment the story well and really add to the overall plot and narrative. I grew to really like both Simon and Catherine which is something I can't say for a lot of games in the genre. The game oozes atmosphere and really draws you in but the enemies are just poorly done and there are a few issues dealing with the plot that I personally didn't like.

The main issue with SOMA is the AI. Some people say the game would be better off without having any enemies in it but I genuinely think the real issue is in it's AI and the fact that it really needed to be a lot better than what we were left with. It's strictly scripted and incredibly predictable save for scripted events. The AI isn't really much of an AI. It simply obides by three rules:
1. Teleports to player if it's not close enough.
2. If there's a noise made by the player it runs after the player.
3. Patrols the proximity of where the player is.

This just leads to what can only be described as blatant cheating. The game knows where you are and it makes no attempt at hiding that fact which is incredibly frustrating. There may only be one enemy in an entire complex but because of the three rules the AI is tied to it will always be stuck to you no matter how quiet, how slow or how fast you are. It's especially because of the third rule which leads to the most frustration in the game. You're quiet, you haven't made a noise but the enemy, even though you were last seen on the other side of the map and so was the monster/enemy only moments ago, randomly spawns behind you and makes the same patrol route over and over and over. If you stay in a room be prepared to see the enemy pace back and forth every 30 seconds on the dot and then do the exact same thing when you move to the next room and the next and the next...

To put it lightly, the AI is nonexistent. There are five enemy types and they all repeat the same looped patrol pattern over and over. It's a shame because each enemy type is supposed to be unique but they end up being bland and the exact same as the previous monster. One is blind, one you can't look at and one only responds to noise but it just doesn't matter when they all follow the same three rules. It will only take you up to the second enemy to realise this unfortunately. It also takes away any challenge in playing the game to remove any real threat to the player in having something so limited and held back with zero freedom and very little attention given to it. This game really would have delivered in the horror department if the enemies were given a bit more life and not held on such a tight leash so to speak. The AI really needed to be stupid in a practical sense to be enjoyable; as in if a noise was made the enemy would rush to where the noise was and stay there to investigate even if the player wasn't anywhere near, perhaps add a few curve balls in that the enemy would grow frustrated in being mislead one too many times and literally go beserk running around the level tearing up the place trying to find the player. Unfortunately nothing like this happens and it has lead to a lot of people surmising the game probably would have been better off without having any enemies in the it at all. It is an absolute shame too because the amount of times I stood on a glass vase or moved something by accident and made noise would have proven to be some of the most terrifying experiences if only the AI was actually good but because of how bad it is nothing ever came of it. Even enemies that were supposed to react to noise only reacted when you threw items right beside them. It was just so bad and a real sin against an otherwise amazing game.

The other issue deals with the plot. Some parts of it are introduced but immediately forgotten. For instance, and minor spoiler, when you meet Amy and if you choose to save her you never mention her again. Even when you come across someone who could possibly provide help you never mention her. You don't even refer to the machines that think they're human specifically. What really bothered me was actually what we were presented with in the beginning of the game: Simon and his girlfriend/love interest, Ashley. It's thirty seconds long and you never read or hear about it beyond that save for reading a newspaper clipping in the first bit of gameplay. What's more is all decisions you make in the game have no real effect on the story. You're lead to believe early on that healing and taking energy from other robots detracts from the game and it's story, as in it takes systems offline and makes it harder, effecting the game as you play through but the reality is after the first hour or two the most that will happen is the energy will be sucked out of lights, making it a bit dimmer. It's really sad to think what could have been although it's most likely something that was started but later deemed too ambitious for the size of the developer and thus abandoned.

Overall, the game is still really good. It's an 8 out of 10 being docked marks due to the lack of AI and the fact that game wasn't really scary at all(Which I attribute to the AI) when it was billed as being a horror game. Some scary elements but they really failed to deliver in most parts even though they did go out of their way to do some rather freaky and suggestive things only to have nothing come from them(Such as doors being opened a-jar when you return to them minutes later).

Would I recommend it? Absolutely. Full price? Yeah, definitely. You'll get on average 10-12 hours if you don't rush the game and if you look around and take the time to read all or most bits of information available you'll spend about 15 or so hours. There's no real replay value but I can see it being fun to rush through the game on a second run. The one thing I will add is that those hours spent playing the game will mostly be entertaining and very enjoyable. There are frustrations with the enemy AI but overall, 90% of the time, it's a real treat to play.