Dreadout is a horror game about some indonesian highschool students lost in some abandoned city fill with ghost and other creature that will hunt the player. But ! You have something to counter that, a magical phone that will make the ghost disappears when you took their photos. Yep, just like in Fatal Frame.

Act 1 Review:
The thing is, i really want to give this game a good review but at this current state, i can't. First thing first, i don't want to talk about the graphics because its not that good, its mediocre at its best. The texture didn't have the amount of detail that 2014 games used to have (yes, even in indie games quality), that is coming from a person that didn't really care about graphics. Now the gameplay, its very boring, you barely encounter any ghost at all and there's only 3 of them that you can actually fight. The other ghosts ? Its only part of some cheap jumpscare or puzzle that you most solve. For a game that advertise their main feature is the magical phone camera. Its a huge letdown in game design that you only use it a few times, even though Its actually really fun to defeat the ghost using the camera.

The puzzle is not really easy and no, its not because its challenging or anything, its because the game didn't tell me or guide me what so ever, how can i know i suppose to get up there to that dead end just to get the clue that let me advanced the story ? The game suppose to give a small bit a clue to help the players.

Act 2 Review:
I guess i could finally kinda recommend this game, in this act they certainly improved a lot of aspect in the game which make the game better.

First of all, the puzzle is a lot better than the act 1, the "puzzle" sense that the main character get when they stumbled upon a puzzle is easier to be noticed. Its still hard, and you still have to think to solve it, but it doesn't require luck to even stumble upon some of the puzzle like in the previous act. 

The ghost encounter has been improved a lot. There's more aggresive ghost that will try to kill you and you have to use your camera to kill them, and each ghost has there own weakness which makes every encounter with them is a puzzle itself. There is less passive ghost in the game, but every ghost that you encounter has a purpose instead of just kinda standing around doing nothing or just be there to jumpscare you, some of them is part of the puzzle that will help you advance the story, and some them has some hidden story that you can collect.

The plot that this game is going for is very interesting and kinda unique. A lot of people might hate the story, but i really like it. I can't tell you anything about the story apart from that you will have to think in the end. Like, What just happen ? What the hell is the story ? Who is her ?? and that kind of stuff.
But, the ending really feels like a sequel bait, which is not nice in a game. I just hope that the developer did well enough to actually make a sequel to this game.

Really fun but really short and apart from few jumpscare that are kinda scary. Its not that scary, not like the horror that Silent Hill or Outlast could give you. But i think that some people might finds it scary. I still didn't think its worth a full price if you want a memorable and scary experience. But i still recommend it, just keep your horror expectation lower and you will enjoy it.