I'm going to be as honest as possible about this game without coming across totally scathing, but this game is just not up to par. I would even say that it's not really a passing grade.

Let me start with what is good. The sound was amazing. Music and musical changes as well as ambient noises make for a great deal of atmosphere and scare-factor in these games; clearly the developers and designers of this game realized that. The models used for the creatures and ghosts also struck me as unsettling and scary.

The price is also affordable which is a bonus.

But I guess that's it.

Graphics were sub-par. I can foregive this however and would encourage you to look past graphics when making a purchase in the horror genre. I think too much emphasis on graphics can actually ruin a well designed game.

But this game didn't strike me as well designed. My first frustration was centered around the inarticulate communication of what is seemingly the first real puzzle. A help screen can be accesssed in the games menu and when all else fails, the main character also keeps a journal that can be referenced at any time. Presumably, to help with solving puzzles. As you might have guessed this was not the case with the first puzzle. You are left to wander the halls aimlessly looking for anything to help you. The only clue from the journal? I need something sharp. The rest of the puzzles mechanics are just "dropped" on you with the anticipation that you'll piece together what the developers were driving at. I can appreciate this approach to puzzle/horror games (Riven and Myst were both fun and did similar things) but I became frustrated with the pig/key puzzle and its abstruse and very obscure "picture of what could look like bad graphics on the ceiling" solution.

After spending so much time pacing the hallways to figure out this puzzle, the fright of the game had become entirely deflated. With my frustration now outweighing the atmosphere, I carried on with the puzzle in to a room where I need something sharp. The first item I see of notable worth in the room? A pair of scissors. I don't just get the scissors though. I need to go over to a crib (for what reasons I'll never understand since I'm not looking for a crib) and trigger a boss fight. Okay. Bosses are usually another side of a game that can be fun and interesting.

Nope. The pairing of cloogy controls and a constrained space (you fight in an enclosed room) are the only reasons this fight can be considered "challenging". The space was a good idea. The controls were not.

You spend a great deal of game-time in third person following the main character with a pretty typical control scheme. Moving the mouse moves the camera while you use the keyboard to interact (E) and move (WSAD). The flashlight on your phone is turned off/on with (F) while the right mouse button puts you in "first person" mode where you look through the camera of the phone to snap a picture with the left mouse button. Doing so to a ghost deals damage to them. You cannot move quickly while taking these pictures. Why? Because screw you. That's why.

Those controls are reasonable. But it leaves you impared when attempting to swap between third and first person modes and quickly line-up a snap-shot of anything.

And guess what this fight demands of you? You guessed it. So here you are, in a tight space, moving from third to first person, which in turn slows you down or speeds you up, attempting to take pictures of a ghost that is phasing in and out of existence around you. All that was truly needed was a bit more indication of where this ghost was going to appear next or maybe slightly more space, but there is no way to "quickly" look behind you and check all angles. You have to run in short circles in the middle of the room whipping the camera around just enough to line up a snap-shot and hope you don't get so much as nicked by the boss, because then you'll be locked out of recovery and defeated.

What's so bad about being defeated? Well, when defeated (killed) you are sent to a spirit world. Your task here? Wait for your character to pick her sorry butt up off the ground then run a soul-crushing distance (about 20 or so seconds) back to the light and re-enter the frustrating game that sent you here to begin with. Every time you are defeated. Wait for her to get up ~sigh~ Run for a mind-numbing 20 seconds to the light ~sigh~ Try again.

Look. I know many are not going to take well to my review. Haters gonna hate. But more of my time was spent running to the light, wandering hallways aimlessly, and doubting my purchase than was spent enjoying the game. I never finished the first boss. Like many other games that frustrate me, I will likely return and complete the game; a kind of "due diligence" on my part. I did so with the original Red Faction game as well (also a terrible game). But I ultimately don't recommend this title. It lacks both polish and necessary (not even good... just necessary) design elements.