Dreadout is a third person horror game developed by Digital Happiness and published by PT Digital Semantika Indonesia, which was released on Steam in mid-2014 after successfully being greenlit.

The game play in Dreadout is almost identical to that of Fatal Frame. You play the role of Linda Meilinda, a young girl who is on a trip with her high school class mates. The game is played in third person. You will be using your characters smart phone and camera to fight the various kinds of ghosts you will encounter – you’ll also use them in a number of puzzles as well. An interesting element I found in Dreadout is that you don’t actually “die”. When Linda does “die”, you’ll wake up in a dark place surrounded by candles and you run towards the light, typical eh. When using aiming with your phone, the camera will change to first person and you’ll just be looking through the phone’s screen. 

I was really left feeling let down by the graphics in Dreadout. All of the textures are horribly low quality; the polygons can actually be seen visually on most of the models too! Don’t even get me started on the janky animation of some of the characters in the game as well. I was almost on the floor laughing at one of the characters run cycle, it was just horrendous. I was playing the game on 1080p resolution as I was recording, but I tested it out on 4k, it even then still looked poor. Extremely disappointed here as it based on the Unity engine so I would have expected a real high quality looking game. 

There isn’t much to sale about the audio on this either; there is some generic “horror” music in the background that conveniently only turns on when something is about to happen. It is certainly not on the level as say Outlast or Amnesia with their top class sound effects. The voice acting is really awkwardly done as well, I can only assume it has been dubbed over in English because some of the lines really don’t feel natural, and the people who are saying the lines, are clearly not being paid enough, or just don’t want to be there. 

Dreadout is a fairly difficult game; there is no tutorial level or any sort of in game assistance, you are just left to work it out yourself. Whilst the game play is fairly simple to get to grasps with, the game does not explain how you are supposed to use your in game equipment to aid you; for instance you can use your phone to control candles by holding the viewer over them; something which is used in a puzzle, but there are no clues pointing to that. 

All of Dreadout’s levels are fairly sizeable; each of them has a decent number of Easter eggs and collectable items to find. Some of the collectables even unlock in game bosses for you to deal with for extra achievement points if that is your thing! The collectables are all hidden well across the level and will lead you down some interesting paths to find them. The level design is probably Dreadout’s most redeeming factor. 

I finished the game in just over two hours. There are three chapters to the game; the first one is really short and has no real story to it, but the last two contain the bulk of the plot and game play. The majority of people that have played the game don’t even normally play the first chapter since it glosses over most things anyway. Other than achievement hunting, there is absolutely no reason to play this game more than once; the two hour play time is very short as well. 

I didn’t run into any bugs or glitches in the game per say, just the really bad graphics and poor sound effects. It can run at 4k resolutions and multiple graphic options aid you to get the settings just right for your rig. It seems the game did have a few annoying bugs when first released, such as option changes not being saved when quitting the game, but these have all been ironed out as of writing this review. 

Sadly this isn’t going to come out very favourably from me; yes the game play is OK, but it is fairly slow paced and unoriginal. Graphically this game is appalling and quite frankly, there are so many much better horror games in this genre out there at the moment; I am fully expecting people not to agree with this, given that it already has a “Very Positive” rating on Steam. This is one of the few games to include a demo, so if you are on the fence about picking it up or not, you may as well try the demo first. 

Tom's Score Card
1) Stay away
2) Not Recommended
3) Only recommended when on sale
4) Recommended
5) Highly recommended
6) This is a must play