This is a fantastic example of the horror genre being done properly in a video game. I didn't know much about it going in, only that you played as a girl with a camera who fought ghosts, so I set the bar low thinking it might just be a bad Fatal Frame knockoff but it's very original despite the parallels. First let's talk about some horror tropes and how the game handles them because a lot of games screw this up...

Jump scares are here but they're not the ONLY thing that's here. There's is a lot of tension, build up, anticipation, not knowing what you're going to find around the next corner, etc. In other words, there is a strong focus on the psychological aspects of horror and the game doesn't just rely on jump scares. There is also plenty of times where the tension builds up to... nothing. Yes, even nothing is important in horror. If the audience learns that tense moments always lead to a horrific payoff then the tension melts away due to familiarity. It just becomes systematic. Here they mix it up often enough that you never know exactly what to expect and that keeps you on edge.

Darkness is another trope often done wrong but this game handles it in a fairly unique manner. You do have a flashlight and it is better to use the flashlight than not use it but the flashlight itself isn't the best way to light your surroundings. When you bring up your smartphone camera, the world gains an even lighting that makes it easier to see things. Being in camera mode is slow, however, so there's a good balance between moving quickly in low light and switching to your camera to see better. The game also avoids two horror game DON'Ts: flashlight cone of light and batteries. The flashlight has a fairly wide arc of light (although the engine sometimes renders things in darkness that should be lit, this is an engine issue and not a design issue) instead of a narrow cone which is great and it doesn't require batteries/fuel which is fantastic. That's just the beginning, though, because later you get an SLR camera which has a completely different lighting mechanic. Instead of a flashlight you have the camera's flash. The flash lights up the world VERY well but only briefly and when you bring up the camera you're left in the dark until you take a picture instead of having the even lighting of the smartphone. This is a whole new dynamic and you have both the camera and the smartphone so you can switch between them as you like which gives the player choices and different ways to explore the world.

Now, onto combat/puzzle mechanics. These almost entirely revolve around the camera. Many ghosts you can just take pictures of when the camera shows static but sometimes you need to work out a pattern or a discover a weak point in order to be able to kill a ghost before it kills you. Puzzles are also mostly about taking pictures of the right things or noticing differences in the world between the world as you see it normally and how you see it behind the camera's viewfinder. While it seems very simplistic, the game keeps everything fresh throughout. Each ghost and puzzle is going to have it's own little twist. There were a few fights and puzzles in the game that I was really impressed with and I don't want to spoil.

As for the story, the game does a great job of giving you the backstory through little newspaper clippings and whatnot while giving you the present day story though cutscenes. There are some aspects that probably could have been fleshed out a little better but overall you'll know what's going on by the end. At first it seems like a normal little haunted town but there is a bigger central plot that comes into play near the end so I can't say any more about it.

As for criticisms, I have plenty. This is an indie game on a budget so it does have some flaws but overall the great experience overshadows all the flaws. The one flaw I have the biggest complaint about is Limbo. When you die you end up in Limbo and you have to run into the light to get back into the game. Normally this running section gets longer and longer the more times you die and it gets REALLY annoying. There are items you can collect to shorten Limbo, however. IMO, the shorter length should be the standard. The first time I played I missed an item so I wasted many, many minutes running in Limbo during boss fights where I died frequently and I feel that was just a big waste of my time. (Edit: Turns out there is an option in the game for "Fixed Limbo Length". Wish I'd known about that earlier. Turn it on to save yourself some grief!)

There are also some little quibbles like the low res textures (some are like N64 quality, I know this is indie but sheesh), some audio levels being unbalanced (sometimes a BGM would kick in quite loudly for what I had my volume set to), a few glitches here and there (nothing game-breaking) and some of the ghosts can have particular quirks that make it hard to fight them (one ghost I needed to aim the camera slightly high or I couldn't get static to take a picture and I was completely frustrated before figuring that out) but none of them are enough to detract from this great gaming experience. I highly recommend it even at the full $15 price tag. Pick it up if you enjoy horror games.