From the creators of Endless Space comes a hybrid sci-fi/fantasy strategy game set on one world. So far it's still in early access and it blows me away how good this game is. Very polished for the stage it is in. It continues to evolve the combat system from Endless Space where you don't micromanage each unit, but give broad orders to your army. Some of the game concepts aren't clear when you first begin playing; for instance how far you should place cities to maximize land use, or how terrain affects the borders of your cities. Not all is lost, however, as you have the option of razing your cities to effectively move the city, though this slows down your empire's progress. 
Some of the unit actions seem a bit more complicated than they need to be. In Civ you're used to right clicking on a goody hut and everything is taken care of. In Endless Legend you place your army next to the "goody hut" and then click on the action you wish your army to do, and then click again on the "goody hut". This makes the task take three times as many clicks as needed and gets cumbersome after a short while.
The tech tree is interesting, though a bit light imo. It follows the path system set by Endless Space with a few changes. You are not limited to which tech you wish to research except by which phase of the game you're in, which they call "Age". There are 6 seperate Tech Trees, one for each Age. There are no paths between the techs currently, though I hope they change that, and it is not quite clear how to advance to the next age. It just sort of happens as you play.
The units do not feel complete or unique yet. They have different animations and icons, but I have yet to see a reason to bring along a support type unit with an army instead of all infantry or ranged, besides terrain. Which leads to the next thing I'd like to talk about. When you initiate combat the camera pans out a bit and uses the terrain of the world map as the battle field, with both height and types of terrain that affect how units move about the fight. You can place the units initially, but after the fight starts you have no more control. This makes ranged units very powerful, as you can place one on a cliff and it will plink away at a melee unit while it travels around the hexagon to reach the ranged unit.
Overall I do reccomend the game for fans of Endless Space and Civilization type games. If micromanaging units is a must, stay away.