Everyone throws massive showers of praise on this game, they love the factions, they love the rpg elements, they especiallly love all it's new twists on the 4X stategy genre. And I enjoy these things, the RPG elements with regiments and heroes is really cool, the battles are an interesting twist from the norm, the quests are cool and the factions are all very disinct in look, play and lore. 

However, I must stress caution with this game, don't expect a masterpice, becasue it isn't, the increadible amount of praise on this doesn't take into account all of this games problems, which is what i'm going to stress here. 

I first played this game when my friend brought it over on his laptop, I would play a few quick, short games and they where so much fun, and indeed the start of the game is a lot of fun. But once I had the game and started longer playthroughs, I began to get bored really quickly. The game is great when you start it up, but as you get further in, it becomes a drag. This is largely the fault of a terrible AI, which isn't a good thing to have in a game for a genre that is heavily reliant on single player.

The Ai just doesn't know how to play this game, it will always build the same armies over and over again, in one playthrough it will build full stacks of Dragonlings, and only that, then next playthrough it will build 6 wyverns and two ancients per army, and thats it, it will take a stack and only build that stack, and this makes battles in one playthrough increadibly repetitie and boring. It's play style will never suit the scenario, andf it will almost never declare war on you. It's increadibly easy to beat as well, and this means that games become a drag to play through till the end.

The quest system, while initially pretty cool, has multiple problems, for one it won't often make sense what it demands of you, for instance it may tell you to conquer a city from someone you've signed an alliance with when there is someone else much closer who isn't your ally. Biggest problem however is that they can become uncompletable very easily. You can get a quest asking you to do something that you've alrady done, and as a result the quest becomes incompletable. I remember with horror when in one of my campaigns I got a quest to increase the population of one of my cities to a certain level, and found that the population was already at that level, and then the quest became incompletable! And this was a faction quest, the kind nessisairy to continue the storyline!

The winter system too, while initially cool (no pun intended), helps this drag as it bcomes more and more frequent the further you go into the game, and this helps add to the drag that you start to feel the further in you go.

There are some other problems, but most of them are really negligable, the biggest dissapointment is that these issues could all be fixed with a better AI, and so it is with a heavy heart that must say i can't recomend this game, despite all the effort in the art style, the lore and all the unique mechanics, the poor AI just makes this game soo boring. So I say don't buy this game, at least not yet, if they fix the AI then it'll have my full recomendation, but until that stage, I just have to say no.