Endless Legend is similar to classic 4X games like Civ but adds many new mechanics and elements that make the game refreshing and unique.

Each run feels different and fresh thanks to the 8 playable factions - all with their own unique specialties, traits, units, heroes, and mechanics; there's also over 15 minor factions that you could assimilate to bolster your faction's strength or cover a weakness. If that is not enough variety for you, then you could also make your own custom factions! 

You can also customize your heroes and units with weapons and equipment you unlock via research or from quests. For instance, the Vaulter's archer unit - the Marine - can be equipped with long bows that are strong against flying units or a 1handed crossbow and shield for more defense and extra firepower in short-ranged combat. Armor and accessories can be mixed and matched to customize your heroes and units even further.

The game also features politics and trading like your standard 4X fare but adds a new twist due to the introduction of influence as a resource needed to engage in such. Influence is not only used to for politics and trades, but also for assimilating minor factions and passing empire plans that give buffs to your empire.

The game might seem daunting and intimidating at first due to the many complex mechanics and vast amounts of customization available to new players - but they're actually easy to learn and engage with thanks to the smooth and intuitive interface as well as the empire screen and army screen which shows a summary of everything in your empire like your cities, resource production, construction queue, heroes and armies, etc etc. All it takes is just 2 clicks to find anything you might have lost track of in the map.

Atmosphere-wise, the game us top-notch - with gorgeous visuals and art style, backed by an amazing soundtrack, and fascinating fantasy/sci-fi story and lore.

My only complaints is that the AI can be quite dumb; and slow-down may happen when a game gets ridiculously long like turn 300+.

Overall: Highly recommended for newcomers and hardcore fans of the 4X genre.