This game has been out a while and this review may never reach anyone but whatever.

I really liked Civ. The 4x genre appealed to me and Civ was a damn good game to get into at the time. That said, I'm not a big solo game type of player. I don't really enjoy playing vs AI. I've got a solid group of friends and multiplayer is where we set our hearts on. Time and time again Civ would crash, freeze up and just corrupt. Hours and hours of multiplayer games wasted and ended before the fun could really start. 

Endless Legend WORKS. It just ♥♥♥♥ing works. I want to really push that point home. If you were disappointed with Civ's ♥♥♥♥ multiplayer, Endless Legend could be a real option. Any time steam would go down or there was a DC, we instantly could go back to lobby, load up that turn or 1-2 turns prior and continue. Every. Single. Time. 

If you have a group of friends that are looking for a 4x game, I highly recommend this game. We played easily 60-80 hours before we noticed any imbalances in the game. We are able to turn on and off different content in the main menu. A REALLY nice feature. We've opted to disable the Guardians content because it's heavily RNG based. For example, I as the Broken Lords was easily able to accumulate 4,000 dust. I was rewarded with 200 of a very powerful strategic resource which allowed me to in a matter of 10 turns, dwarf my friends and crush them 1v2. Guardians has fun additions for single player but for multiplayer, we've had a much better + more balanced time since we turned Guardians off.

150 hours in and I just want MORE. I think a large part of it is that while the game is fun, I've many friends to play with consistently. If I only had the ingame AI, I'd probably have only played 50 hours or so. Going beyond Serious difficulty, the AI doesn't get smarter, they just get more free stuff which is pretty lame. Playing with friends, the politics, the diplomacy and back stabs are ♥♥♥♥ing epic!

I'm glad I got this game. If you have friends that want to try a 4x, I heavily recommend this one. If you get into it, try disabling Guardians and see if that resolves any frustrations with the RNG aspect of Legendary Deeds. If you just want to play vs the AI, you'll probably get bored after 30 hours or so - still really good value if its on sale.
