Im so sorry Civ 5, Endless Legend is just better. Thats not easy for me to say, as i love Civ 5 more than any other game ive ever played. For years ive come back for one more turn, endlessly, never tiring of the game. Untill i bought Endless Legend after seeing it win 2014 game of the year on Rock Paper Shotgun. I bought it, and stumbled through the first few turns of a Drakken playthrough, and realized in those few turns that i was suddenly tired of Civ 5. I have said, "man i wish that feature was in here" or "they should but this and that in Civ BE (which they didnt) or "this needs to change in Civ 6" a million times. And all those changes i ever wanted were already there in endless legend. Entire armies of only unique units. Truly fully cusumizable units. Cities can expand in physical size on the map and encompass more tiles, till the planet looks like Coruscant. Truly unique factions, not just a weak bonus and one unique unit, i mean the factions are unreacognizable from each other. I mean one faction can even MOVE its cities somewhere else. Or this other one can literaly trick other players into siging and agreement that they dont want. another action quite literary feeds on the flesh of the other factions for growth. They are all truly disticnt, unlike civ 5 and BE's stale factions and units. If you were whatching a game were you couldnt see the name of a factions cities and could not see there factions color on civ 5, you probly couldnt tell two factions arpart, untill one of them builds there only unique unit. That will never be a problem in EL. Not only is every unit unique, but the city art is so lovingly crafted, a glance at a city and you know what faction owns it. Each faction has radically diferent architechture from the others. But enough on the aesthetic part of the game. The gameplay is something to behold. Because gameplay is different for all factions, ill just cover the basics. There are regions. Only one city cam be built in a region, and that city is named after the region its constructed in. Once a cities constructed, a farm or any other tile improvement (called exploitations) are automatically built on the tiles surrounding a city. As your population grows, you gain workers. Workers dont roam the map, but instead are assigned in cities to work a specific type of tile, not an individual tile. Cities expand to new tiles by building districts, which expands the size of the city by adding a new bock. Coin is replaced by dust, which is money, and has magical purposes as well. Luxary resoursces are used to create empire boost, which cost a amount of resource, so having large quanities of the smae luxary is very beneficial. Ifluence is used to make deals, and assimilate villages, which are a mix of barbarians and city states. There are so many diferent systems in this game i cant possilby cover them all. Just buy the game and play it.