People sometimes overlook games because they seem to convey an impression of "Been there, done that." In other words, concepts, ideas, mechanics, etc that have been used or done before. At first glance, Endless Legend does indeed have those traits. But, when settling in to give the game a chance, there's a feeling of refresh by the way it presents itself.

The graphics and style of the game are beautiful and help give a lovely sense of immersion and personality. The music score of the game is especially a treat and only help accentuate on these features. Gameplay is refined yet still deep enough to be somewhere in the intermediate of complexity. No, it's not the most deep of strategy 4X experiences one could have, but that's certainly not a bad thing. Rather, the way it plays out allows one to still use their mind and strategize, but not be overwhelmed to the point where it takes hours and lots of reading to make heads or tails of how the game plays out.

The factions in the game all have their own background, theme, traits, and their own thing going for them. And I have to say, some of them are downright intriguing. And in some cases, even unnerving--but in a good way! What's nice about these factions is they all play quite different from one another and even have their own quests to follow. As such, one could play through the game and have a distinctive experience each time. Though, this is all also thanks to the many customization options one can do for the world generation, changing anything from size, terrain types, general land formation, world difficulty, victory conditions, and more. For those bold or wanting to mix things up, you can even make a custom faction based on one of the existing ones as a template.

Combat is turn based with light tactical considerations. It's not as deep as some other 4X games, but there are some I have played where it's even more simplistic than how Endless Legend presents it. As mentioned before, Amplitude seems to aim to make games that have a happy medium with their approach to complexity, nothing too complex, but not too simple. They also like to make a nice clean, accessible, and slick interface to help make navigating and display information in a pleasant fashion that helps make a person feel comfortable using it more than intimidated.

I do like the direction Amplitude has been going with their games and certainly would love to see future developments from them. Their work is pretty solid from day 1 release. Though, there are bugs to be had and their track record with patches has been quite good with Endless Space. As such, their support is quite good and they're willing to do what they can to make their fans happy, even if given some time.

Bottom line, if you like 4X strategy games and enjoy ones of a fantasy nature that doesn't take itself too serious, but not too lackluster, I think you'll be at home with Endless Legend. It's a happy medium that makes it hard not to like for those that aren't looking for something too complex or casual.