4X done right!

For the TL;DR Its a great game. Hits so many great titles out there, but adding its own fresh curve balls. I do not regret my purchases. I would recommend this game to anyone. 10/10 

This is by far, one of the best 4x I have played in a very long time. If you are a Civ fan you need to give this game some thought. It has everything the civ fans enjoyed over the years, but at the same time also gives new and refreshing ideas. It has the 4X feel to it that we all know and love. So it wont take long to start understanding the way this one plays but at the same time also throws some curve balls your way making you go "whoa, that is awesome" 

Scrolling out the map never felt so good. in other games you scroll out. Get an under standing and scroll back in. This, you scroll out and admire everything you have done seeing all that you control from a more masters look. Feeling like your on that iron throne and pushing around your wood pieces. 

Combat gives a whole new meaning to the 4X genera. Iv played allot of these style games. I love the combat to this, So far this game has dabbled in my childhood more then I thought it would from playing Civ 1-5 and Heroes of might and magic. 
If your a heroes of might and magic fan being able to tell each unit who to attack and where to run instead of click, right click. and a fight broke out. You get so much more control over what each unit does. AS well as your hero. 

Units, being able to gear up your units with more armor and weapons, rings and necklace. For how indepth this game goes. Its got me comin back for more and more each time. 

Heroes. Each hero has a skill tree as well as gains xp. Adding new armor, trinkets, weapons. Skill points. Want a bad ♥♥♥ that leads your troops to hell and back, you got it. Want one that sits in your city and just helps run that ♥♥♥♥. You got that to. I love just exactly how much control i have over what everyone does. 

On to that last part over control. Your citys go a little different in the route of how things are done instead of making workers. plowing fields building this, and telling them to do this. Instead you have workers, but apart of the city. Want to pop out more gold(in this case Dust) Move one, two or all of the workers over to dust. Need to make this troop faster for that war. Move all your workers over to industry. Some may say that might make it easier but it doesn't just makes it more convenient. Workers are still taken away each time you make a settler so there is a downfall to all happy ups. 

The other thing that I love about this is the races to choose from, each with there own back story and quest line. There own play style. Really throwing more in to the ring. Not only this, its the fantasy theme, if your a fantasy lover, 4X player, and a Heroes of might and magic playing Civ 5 person. Give this game more then just thought, go ahead and put it in that cart. You will not regret it.