Overview:

Endless Legend beat all all my expectations in a game, even at Alpha Stage it has more to it than some 4x games. 

In a nutshell as a comparison the game is a great mix of Fallen Enchantress, and Endless Space. If you liked both You'll love Endless Legend most likely, even if you didn't like Fallen Enchantress, the mix of Endless Space makes it great. 

The game-play will feel right at home for Endless Space players, and other 4x games like Fallen Enchantress with some unique spins as well. 

Game-play: 

Cities:
The map is split up into pre randomized territories. When you build a city in a territory you capture that entire territory. As you build your city expands tiles. Your city uses all of the main tiles its on + the surrounding ones for resources, gold, industry, and science. 

The towns can also be governed by Heroes just like planets in Endless Space, which will give a nice boost depending on how you level up your hero. 

Armies: 

Armies work much like Fleets do in Endless Space. You have a max number of squads you can have, until you research more. Armies can be lead by Heroes which will give the army nice amounts of boosts depending again how you level them up. 

Heroes:

Heroes in general are a bit different than in Endless Space. Though they can govern towns and armies, they also have armor/weapons and accessories you can equip them with like in Fallen Enchantress. As you research more, and get more resources, you unlock more powerful and different kinds of weapons/armors for your Heroes to equip. 

Regular units cannot be equiped with different armors, but they do get a boost depending on which tech era you're in, and as they gain levels through battles they get stat boosts. 

Battles: 

Battles play out like they would in Fallen Enchantress, but with a few slight differences. It goes in phases much like battles in Endless Space, with the setup, telling each unit to be aggressive, defensive, or not to move at all. Next phase is selecting who they focus. Then its go. They'll move if need be to get in range of who you wanted them to target, and they'll take turns attacking. Their initiative determines who goes first. 

After 2 turns, you get to re adjust your army, if you want some units to fall back, or re adjust who they focus. 

The battles also take place on the tiles around the map itself. As a battle starts the battlefield will consist of a large portion of the tiles that actually exist on the game map itself, allowing you to use the terrain to your advantage. 

The Map: 

The map is split up into tiles, and on these tiles, and plays just like you'd expect a 4x game like this. However, there are also ruins which you can find, and if explored by an army with a hero may generate a random quest to go on, or give you gold(dust). 

The map is very beautifully done, and looks amazing, and changes depending on if its summer or winter. 

Minor Factions: 

Minor Factions are randomly put around on the map. You cannot trade with them, and at the start they are neutral. You can attack or negotiate with them to add them to your faction. Each Minor Faction has a faction wide boost for immulating them into your faction, and you get to train their troops along with your normal ones. 

Conclusion: 

Already in Alpha this game has nearly more than Fallen Enchantress and other 4x games that have gone through in the past. You know a game will be well worth it if you can get your money's worth in Alpha. 

However, it being Alpha does mean there are things still not implemented, and balancing that needs to happen, but is well worth the money in my opinion, and will be something worth investing in early that you won't be disappointed in. 
