To put it simply, this game is one of the best, if not the best, 4x games I've ever played. And it's still in testing. First of all, this game looks gorgeous: from landscapes to unit design. The world can be aesthetically changed and physically changed through pre-game options, meaning that random seeds just got more random. Units actually change how they look depending on armor (to be implemented in the future, review written as of Alpha Test on 6/3/14) equipped and weapons equipped (already implemented), meaning I can have some wierd bug guys with claws, or wierd bug guys with spears. While not at all necessary in a 4x, it really adds a sense of personality (which is something that Amplitude usually lacks in their games) and a feeling that what you do is actually impacting your empire. Secondly, the game's speed is perfect. It feels faster than most 4x games (I can play a 5-man game on a small map and win through elimination in under 200 turns, and I'm a complete noob at this point), but it's by no means limiting strategy or creating pressure. Thirdly, every faction ingame so far (Wild Walkers, Vaulters, Necrophages, Broken Lords, and soon the Cultists of the Endless) is very unique. They have both positive and negative traits, which usually work to somewhat even eachother out. For example, Necrophages have decreased food gain, but they can turn corpses into stockpiles of food; Broken Lords use Dust to heal instead of food, and in turn gain increased Dust production. 
On another hand, combat in this game is no AoW3, and it is somewhat repetetive, however, the ability to manually adjust your battle formation is something really cool. First of all, it allows you to better organize your units for either an increased success rate or survival rate or both. Secondly, it makes the game more challenging if you don't know what you're doing or if you don't know what type of enemy you're facing or the type you're good against. In multiplayer when it's released, two people customizing layouts will be doubly intriguing as they'll have to both predict what the enemy does and what they should do to counter it. On top of that, simply, it adds more graphic options. In auto battling you'll miss your giant demon unfurling his wings, jumping onto the foe, and slamming his giant axe into some poor flying unit's face. Another reason I find this manual adjustment cool is that, similar to armor and weapon changes, it lets you feel like you're in more control of the game. I mean, you are the battle leader right? So you should be able to, let's say... actually lead the battle, right? In Endless Legend, you can. 
I'd like to edit this review in order to post about some concerns I've been reading about. Some people are very unsatisfied with how diplomacy currently is (posted as of 6/15/14) and are trying to use this as a major factor in order to downplay how good this game is. The game is currently in Alpha testing and as such does not feature everything it will have upon release. The AI will be sure to improve (for anybody who seems unable to find this information, based on my experiences, the AI are overall a little bit silly. The first game or two you might get demolished when you just meet two people and they both declare war on you, but not eachother, however, once you see how the bots use an entirely militaristic route with mediocre strategies, you'll be fine against them.). Another complaint is the difficulty of the AI, there is currently only one AI setting, Alpha, and this will of course evolve into more and more difficulties when the developers want to focus on that instead of the founddation of the game. Also, this game is intended to be a multiplayer game, and people are (usually) more strategic than bots, which will immensely ramp up the difficulty of the game. Another concern, in the form of a question, I've been hearing is about how long turns are. As I mentioned, this is a fairly fast-paced 4x, and to go with how fast you might go, the AI are not slow at calculating what they'll do this turn and next. I can't give an exact time for how long they plan, but it felt shorter than Civ 5 to me. If anybody has concerns or questions feel free to ask me below and if Steam gives me that notification, I'll be sure to respond.
Overall, I'd give this game so far an 8/10, and unless the developers do something stupid, it'll be a 9 at least upon release. The developers are working with the community to make the game better (in fact right now they just concluded a player-made Faction contest, go Cultists!) and they seem to be listening to the player's feedback, complaints and all. If you're into 4x games, I would say you should give this game a chance. Or two. Maybe three, third time's a charm. Though 4th is no less fun. Etc. :P