Enless Legend is the first "Endless" game I have ever played, so from a gameplay standpoint it feels a lot like the Civ series. You develop your civilization through a tech tree, update your cities with buildings, and build armies for exploration and extermination. Armies in this case are more hero and item driven than Civ. Similar to say, Fallen Enchantress, you develop heroes and units with weapons, armor, and trinkets, which can be found in the world, aqcuired through quests, or created in a city. This all feels good, but it's not what keeps me playing Endless Legend.

I find the world building in Enless Legend to be supurb. Here's why:
Every faction is unique. Each one of them has it's own back story, and purpose for being on this world. Each unit has back story which explains why it has the abilities it has, and often why it looks the way it does. A campaign has been built for each faction to provide a steady drip of objectives and story to go with it. Also, each faction plays quite differently from the next by having different strengths and resource needs.
The look of the game is striking. It's the type of game you could buy based on the sole belief that it is an interactive and evolving piece of visual art. The color pallet, unit and city design, and way the topography of the map is depicted is beautiful.
The soundtrack is quite nice. Again, the factions have a unique feel and tone articulated in the ambient music. This does a great job of pulling you into the world.
Finally the UI. It may be the best I have ever used in a turn based strategy game. The overall design is greyscale and filled with very clear icons. Color is used to great effect to represent resources, factions, regions of the screen, and actions which can be done with the mouse pointer on specific objects. Everything is meticulously and clearly described through tool tips, and the UI can be collapsed and expanded in several ways. The tech tree, which is more like tech pools, where you research so many from Age 1 to move on to Age 2 is a great addition to the genre. The diplomacy screen is split into a semi-circle, which radiates outward. Depending on your standing with an opponent they will physically be closer or further away from you, and spaced relatively to their own allies or enemies.

There are a couple places I could see improvement in this game, and it would be easy to do in an expandion. 
The first is the combat. The way "combat mode" is integrated with the living world is great, but I wish I had a little more control over my individual units. Some uniqe skills which I can choose from and actively use would draw me into the world even more. They do a great job integrating every unit into the world and a few unique skills and art to go with it would be great. There is always the option to automate or spectate the battle, and I often feel like manually controlling a battle, and spectating it is about the same thing.
The next is a small hickup in usability and it only stands out because everything else is so fluid. Adding a created unit to a nearby army stack. It appears you have to put the new unit into an army to leave the city, and then walk it to the stack. Sometimes this can be done by selecting the unit, and right clicking the stack. Othertimes it doesn't work. I have wasted many movement turns trying to get this accomplished.

If you are looking for a great turn based strategy game set in a fantasy/sci-fi world I would highly recommend Endless Legend.