An excellent 4X turn-based strategy, set in pre-apocalyptic fantasy (or is it fantasy..?) world. Your planet, Auriga is dying, with winters steadily getting longer and harsher, and threatening to kill all life on the planet. But relics left by the ancient race, the Endless may hold key to saving Auriga, or some other means to survive the coming cataclysm. But other factions have their own plans on how to survive the disaster – and some just happily fight for territory heedless of approaching doom, so you may have to conquer the world in order to save it.

Gameplay-wise, Endless Legend is 4X turn-based strategy with tactical battles and some RPG elements. The main focus is strategy, particularly expanding your empire and developing your cities. As the cities control the whole regions they are built in, and as expansion is limited in early game (partially due to increasing disapproval among your citizens if you expand too much, and partially due to high for early game settler cost), you have to plan which regions to colonize first. And as your cities’ population grows, you can build up your cities, visibly expanding them from small settlements into megapolises that cover entire regions they are in.

Tactical combat isn’t as good as in some other games that focus more on it, but still decent enough. Interesting aspect of it is that while units act in turn in combat, all orders are given in the beginning of each combat turn, without knowing how enemies will act, which can make combat unpredictable. Whether it is a good or bad thing depends on whether you enjoy an extra challenge or get frustrated by randomness of battles. If you don’t want to engage in tactical battle, the game allows automatic resolution for all battles, often with quite satisfactory results.

And finally, as for RPG elements, Endless Legend allows you to recruit heroes from a very large list that can either serve as cities’ governors or command armies (and in addition to granting bonuses to an army, fighting in combat themselves as well). As might be expected, the heroes level up as they fight or govern cities, increasing not only their combat stats but allowing you to choose their level-up bonuses, with each faction’s heroes having unique set of skills to choose from.

I fully recommend Endless Legend to anyone who likes 4X turn-based strategies or want to give this genre a try, especially if they want to enjoy a pretty good story to go with the game.