Review includes the add-on "Enemy Within".

The remake of one of the golden oldies of the strategy genre. Naturally this made it quite difficult to satisfy the fans of the original as well as to attract new players in equal parts.

What Firaxis did well, was the graphical style and presentation, XCOM offers the style of the first UFO games, while bringing it in the new era. Nothing extraordinaire for sure, but fitting graphics with the one or other really nice possibility to take a screenshot or enjoy the headshot with which your sniper eliminates this pesky alien.

Regarding the gameplay they tried to keep the balance between streamlining and complexity.

The maps are handmade, offering some nice details and mostly destroyable enviroment, but since the random element is gone, they keep on repeating themselves after some playtime.

The same can be said for the progression of the game itself.. your soldiers are basically divided into classes, which have fixed perk trees to choose from on level up. Without the added options of "Second wave" and the additional possibilities from "Enemy within" to enhance your soldiers with mech or gene modifications, this brings up a similiar problem to the maps, the soldiers are very similiar to each other. As mentioned the add-on options change this in a positive way, beside the modifications you can for example enable that each soldier has different starting stats.
Still this does not reach the complexity of the original X-Com soldiers, but helps the diversity significally.

As for the base management and battles themselves.. once again it is the mix of old and new. The Action points of the old soldiers are gone, now each soldier has two actions per turn (with the right perks, it can be way more though) one for moving, the other for shooting. Again perks as well as equipment can change the possibilities of a soldiers actions.
This system together with an intelligent cover system works quite well and makes for interesting battles.
The base has fixed fields, which you have to fill during the game. Also with the add-on the possibility of the enemy invading your base returns, though as a scripted event.


What gripes i have with the game is, that for example it forces you to go a certain way in science and engineering, besides the story elements themselves. If you don´t rush satellites for most of the states you have a hard time to survive. Same with the interceptors. A bit more freedom and variety would be helpful, especially for a game with such a possible long time motivation. "Enemy within" helps in this respect, but cannot eliminate the weaknesses in full.

Nevertheless they did quite a good job, bringing the alien hunt to the modern age.
So if you like strategy, grab this one :)