This is for EU and Enemy Within.

This game is not for the light hearted. You will lose. You will fail miserably. You will have a lot of fun.

This Sisyphean experience starts off easy enough. Couple of greys, a world moderately in danger. Then the panic strikes, then the world starts asking more of XCOM, then somewhere along the lines you lose 3 men in a Muton ambush, or a squad wipes on a crucial civilian extraction. Then there's the once in a lifetime chance shotgun blast across the map that kills the Sectopod, the single Archangel sniper spitting death from on high like some blessed avenger with a plasma lance cutting a swath through the heathen hordes of aliens. "That's XCOM, baby" is the common phrase other players will use. The emotional rollercoaster you ride through this game is a unique experience, should you buy into it. (The canned ending, personally, is the worst, but your personal experience each playthrough is unique and randomly generated. Your mileage may vary)

The turn based gameplay is one of the best and worst parts of the game. There's a lot of unskippable cutscenes and dealing with the "aggro" animation when you run into a mob(s) is rather annoying. On the flip side, the tactical control is intuitive and you'll find yourself slowly starting to game the game (lol) and thinking imaginatively. XCOM wants you to do this, I think. Its designed to be unrelenting but it has chinks in its armor. On the 'backside', building your fortress of badassery is either a mundane task or a nailbiting terror fest. Every click could spell disaster for your budget or you may find yourself spamming "scan for threats" for ages at a time. It plays with you, which is only fair since you play with it.

EW expands greatly on EU's strengths. There's a few setpiece missions that do intend to wipe your team, raising the stakes and discouraging spamming a single A team for every mission. The new Mechs and other units will test your Commanding skills and livened up the "meta", diversifying how you respond to missions and consquences. Rocket punching (a la Pacific Rim or Big O) a berzerker is one of the best video game moments I've ever had. The EXALT half of the game is interesting, but a distraction at best (you can clear these segments rather early in a playthrough) and the extent of their treachery wasn't really felt. The story of the "furies" is a pretty forgettable story itself, but the boost to your psi units is worth the risk.

All in all, the idea that each playthrough will have its different moments outside of the canned story is a pretty cool and integral part to the XCOM experience. While new "second wave" options will spice up that even further, it could use a sandbox mode or a 'infinte wave' mode as you can stumble through the game or carefully plan every step and still get to a weird, grindy moment in playthroughs. I'd definitely try ironman mode for later playthroughs or things like "training roulette" to let the RNG throw everything its got at you.

Good luck, and happy hunting, Commander.