TL:DR? See Conclusion

NOTE 1:
This review will include an XCOM: Enemy Within expansion review.

NOTE 2:
I'm reposting some of my old reviews because I adopted an easier to read format (and because for some reason I can't edit my old reviews)

INTRODUCTION:
XCOM: Enemy Unknown is an isometric turn-based strategy game and a remake, or rather, reimagining of the classic UFO and X-COM games. The 2012 version aims to bring back the turn-based genre into the mainstream market by introducing the series to modern day graphics, mechanics, and a streamlined and revamped gameplay but still maintaining its tactical stratigic depth.

The player assumes the role of the XCOM Commander who is tasked to lead an elite team of soldiers, scientists and engineers from all across the globe in an effort to thwart a massive alien invasion. You are Earth's first and last line of defense.

PROS:
XCOM: Enemy Unknown (BASE GAME)
+ High Replayability with multiple interchanging missions.
+ Very challenging difficulty.
+ Streamlined Gameplay Mechanic: This remake of the series streamlined the gameplay in a way that it is easier to learn but very difficult to master.
+ Good voice acting and cut scenes.
+ Tense and action-packed gameplay.
+ Customization options for your base, air force and soldiers.
+ Good enemy variety which forces players to adapt.
+ Well Optimized for the PC.

XCOM: Enemy Within (EXPANSION)
+ New 'Mechtrooper' Class is fun to play and a great addition to the roster of soldiers.
+ New 'Meld' resource forces players on a more aggressive and fast-paced play style.
+ New 'Soldier Augmentations' using the Meld substance will provide soldiers with alien-like abilities which is fun to use.
+ Localized Voices: The expansion now gives the option to use the localized version of the game and make their soldiers speak in their native tongue (not all countries though).
+ New missions such as Infiltration with Extraction Missions and Base Defense.
+ XCOM: Long War Mod is available and easy to install to give the game a fresh new life.

CONS:
- Bugs: Updated, patched plus an expansion, but still having some of the day one bugs lingering around.
- Graphic and Camera glitches.
- No Co-op challenges or missions.
- Not enough special missions.
- Interceptor Jets have limited upgrades and customization (can't even change the name of the pilot).
- Late game is a bit too easy and may become boring when everyone in your team is fully upgraded.
- No mid-battle or mid-mission inventory change.
- Some maps repeat if your campaign drags on too long (ex. If you enable the Second Wave 'Marathon' Option).

CONCLUSION:
GREAT GAME and HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. X-COM: Enemy Unknown / Within, is an excellent remake with a revamped game mechanic that is easy to learn yet hard to master. It has updated graphics and visuals that bring the world alive. The combat is tense and action-packed that keeps you at the edge of your seat. Plus, it has lots of missions that have good variety which provides a very challenging difficulty. And above all, it provides a very fun experience for both fans of the series and new players alike.

Well worth its full price. I never had the pleasure of playing the original X-COM games and I know that some of the hardcore fans might have been put off by the streamlining of the series. As for me however, the 2012 remake is a game that delivered one of my best experience on any turn-based strategy game in a long time.

If you're looking for the Classic X-COM experience, check out Xenonauts: