(TL;DR I like the game so buy it.)

This is the story of Jordan Walsch.

Jordan Walsch signed on with XCOM to fight the alien menace. His best friends, Grace and Matt, tagged along. Each of them were promoted to Squaddie during their first missions, and they were given their combat roles. Jordan became an Assault trooper, Matt Support, and Grace Heavy.

Matt gave his life to save Jordan in a botched mission. Grace spent weeks recovering from her wounds.

Jordan was given the nickname "Spitfire" after his next mission. The loss of his friend turned him into a hardened killing machine. The commander recognized that, and Jordan began receiving promotions and being given experimental weapons and armor.

Jordan picked up a few more friends on the battlefield. He swore not to let any more good men die. But it wasn't long before the aliens took another one of his companions. Beatriz, a Brazilian medic, was gunned down right in front of Jordan. He and Grace made the aliens pay with their lives.

After that Jordan was the spearhead of every operation. The commander sent him on every mission. And Jordan never failed. His fellow soldiers relied on and supported his unorthodox brute force tactics.

Eventually Jordan and his friends were promoted to the highest combat rank of XCOM: Colonel. They became a cohesive unit on the battlefield. The researchers made sure they were equipped with the most advanced tech available. Jordan was even hand picked by the commander for a special project. He was the only one in XCOM that completed the training.

*Spoilers censored*
When the time came to take the fight to the aliens, Jordan did not hesitate. He led his team to the enemy (spoiler). But in the end, the aliens' psionic powers turned half of the squad against itself. The cohesion was lost, and Jordan called for covering fire from the team sniper, Boone. Boone was a crackshot, perhaps a little too good. His bullet went straight through the (spoiler)'s skull, severing the link between it and the squad. Jordan's heart sank, however, when Grace slumped to the floor. The experience shattered her mind, killing her instantly. He called to the squad's medic, Miracle, but for nothing. Miracle had also died from the experience. Two more of his friends, dead in an instant. What if he could have disabled the alien, or somehow severed its link without harming his friends? He didn't know, and it didn't matter. As the rest of the squad began to evacuate, he turned toward the (spoiler). He knew what he had to do. Boone and Domingo were the only ones to make it home that day. They had won, but at what cost?

Rest in peace, my friends.
Mayara (Heavy)
Matt (Support - Medic)
Beatriz (Support -Medic)
Benjamin (Rookie)
Grace (Heavy)
Miracle (Support - Medic)
Jordan (Assault, Psionic Operative)



All of these characters, along with a few others, were named after my friends. I cared about them, I panicked when they were in danger and I was heartbroken to see them killed. Leaving the bodies behind to evac the surviving soldiers when things went south was not easy. This was the one of the most emotional experiences I've ever had in a game (Note: I haven't played Spec Ops: The Line.) and I loved it. The fact that it didn't have to come from scripted events and cutscenes made it even better.

I've only played through the game once at this point, but I certainly plan to run through it a few more times. This game is worth its current full price, but if you can catch it while it's on sale there is no reason to pass this up.

10/10 would tell my rl friend that he died in my game again.