As soon as I played XCOM: Enemy Unknown for the first time, it quickly became my personal SOTY (surprise of the year). You play as the XCOM commander and an enormous weight sits in your shoulders since no decision is easy when you are at war. Decisions will be made right from the very first time you play the game weather on choosing some locations above others, depending on what advantages each brings to the table as well what technologies you want to focus first. Strategy is key in both combat and the XCOM facility. It’s not about simply erasing any possible threat but also trying to capture some species for further analysis and study as well to bring more researches that can improve your armory and fleet giving you a better chance at surviving. It is also wise to build a squad in different ways, using different skills in the battle so you can be ready for the most scenarios the game will throw at you.

If you let immerse yourself during the brief introduction to the Story you will get a sense of constant panic and terror due to the global alien invasion showing no mercy killing everyone, civilians and soldiers. While the strength of XCOM is the pure strategy gameplay there will be plenty of time for you to get a raw sense of fear, as well for most of your untrained soldiers since panic will also be part of the battle and will influence their behavior during critical times.

Paying and attention and playing the Tutorial will be very useful in the game but later on you will learn from your own trial & error experiences. While some strategies can work based on some luck, other will require for you to grab every single chance and make every single bullet/turn counts. Difficulty can be a bit harsh if you are not used to genre but believe me, it’s worth learning the basic stuff. I would say that Easy difficulty felt like Normal and Normal sometimes felt like Hard (and so on). If you are a truly adventurer and fearless commander, higher difficulties will put your patience, skills and strategy to the test during every single turn.

The soundtrack is minimal since it’s not a big focus on this game but I felt quite excited each time I was in my paramilitary facility and I became aware of a new threat. The music right when you choose which member will fill your squad to fight in battle give you a decent sentiment of anxiety making you eager to find the next battle location, type of terrain, possibility of new threats and so on.

In the end, XCOM: Enemy Unknown proved to be a time sink, but a good one, there’s no doubt. There is plenty of options for you to make the game adjustable according to your difficulty preferences and there’s a decent amount of content while pushing for new technologies, new weapons, new armor and suits and new ways to fight the enemy. Make your choices wisely, time is short, resources are limited and remember, you can’t save everyone so expect losses in the battlefield without forgetting to extract wisdom from each battle, won or lost.