This remake of the 1993 X-COM: UFO Defense, an obtuse and painful but ultimately satisfying game, attempts to bring UFO Defense into the 21st century while also improving on the original game's intentions. Sadly, (or happily depending on your faith in such an endeavor) all of these changes present a double-edged sword. For every system Enemy Unknown improves - and they are solid improvements - something of the freedom or atmosphere of the original is lost. Some sacrifices are small but expected, such as the way you've built your base not having an effect on base invasions (a feature that itself was only added to the remake with the Enemy Within expansion). Others are a bit more surprising, such as the total change in atmosphere brought about by taking the original troop limit of 14 down to the much smaller squad of 6. Limiting the number of soldiers on the field at a time means that each individual is more valuable and stands out more readily which is also bolstered by an increased level of customization. I found myself even more attached to my Enemy Unknown soldiers than my UFO Defense regulars and as that attachment was one of the biggest joys of the original, it's hard not to consider that a successful change. However, with only 6 soldiers gaining battle experience at a time, any casualty is devastating, meaning you can no longer afford to send a group of bright-eyed red shirted rookies into a situation as you, an experienced commander, know it is unlikely they will survive. So that sense of constant Pyrrhic victories, of losing three men to breach a downed UFO and eliminate the final alien, are lost to gain a more beloved solider with a richer player-made story. This difference encapsulates the transition between the two games. While UFO Defense focused on the greater conflict, with individual soldiers representing little more than a resource, Enemy Unknown focuses on those called to fight and how this conflict affects them. The overarching narrative hasn't changed much, but the change in perspective makes for a unique, fresh experience.

That being said, Enemy Unknown can stand (and fall) on its own as well. The terror of a completely unknown threat and the slow unveiling of what it is you're fighting and why it's fighting you is satisfying without depending on the crutch of name dropping the original's enemies. The unlikelihood of any one shot being 100% certain in accuracy or damage forces the player to come up with backup plans and to deal with the unexpected, keeping the player on his or her toes. Sometimes, however, the unexpected comes not from an intended monkey wrench, but from an obtuseness in the game's mechanics. After completing two full games on two different difficulties, I still have a very poor idea of what a soldier will or will not be able to see and where. This disastrous flaw could have easily been corrected if I had the option to see from the soldier's point of view. Graphical glitches are also relatively common leading to a rushed and unfinished feel which is only compounded by the expansion, Enemy Within. Meld - a resource introduced in the expansion to fuel the new gene modifying and MEC trooper initiatives - both adds a new time element to missions and sticks out as completely artificial. Again this issue seems like it could be simply resolved with a bit more story relevance and/or more logical placements. The 'abduction' mission type seems equally artificial in that they always occur in threes, leaving the commander to choose only one site to defend while leaving the others to their fate and causing panic across those continents. The player is left with no solution to this 'one step forward two steps back' situation nor is there any explanation for why that's so. Which leads me to my biggest complaint about Enemy Unknown: The whole experience feels like it's on rails. Not only doesn't the alien invasion operate on its own independent timescale (a theme which is repeated with the aliens I meet in the field), but it doesn't even seem like anything I as the player do has an affect on how the invasion plays out, past the basic win-lose proposition. Due to this design direction, some story elements can't reach a satisfying conclusion. For instance, the comparison between the alien's situation and XCOM's current trajectory never pays off. The aliens seem to have undergone some great cruelty which is played up from the beginning as being both inhumane and the reason they're so effective, but there is little to no consequence for the XCOM project visiting the same cruelty on its own soldiers to match the enemy's results. This is possibly the most interesting story this setting has to tell and yet it's simply pushed aside once the situation is realized.

Stumbling blocks like these keep this exciting, ensnaring game from achieving the greatness it seems to be aiming for. But if you're prepared for a little (or a lot) of that 'what could have been' frustration, it's not the worst way to spend a good chunk of your time.