Amnesia: still the ruling king of horror games

Horror games are a special genre. What scares one person to hell, could make somebody else just raise an eyebrow, or even come across as comical to yet another gamer. Opinions on what makes a good horror game do vary accordingly, but amidst all these discussions, there's one game that stands out: Amnesia: The Dark Descent. Almost everybody who has played this game, concedes that it is exceptionally scary, and thus succeeds wonderfully as a horror game.

The first of the two Amnesia games, it was released just five years ago, in september 2010. It's not the first horror game by its developer, Frictional Games, who earlier made the Penumbra games, but it's certainly the title that made Frictional Games famous. With the hype around the upcoming release of Soma, yet another Frictional title, playing through their best known horror game yet only seemed appropriate, and long overdue.

Actually I started this game already three times earlier this year, every time not finding the courage to move on after the first hour or so, out of pure fear. I only play this kind of games when it's dark outside, using headphones, in order to let them develop their full scaring potential, but with Amnesia: The Dark Descent this kind of approach just looked impossible. The past couple of weeks I finally found the courage to persevere (in complete darkness), but I was only able to play the game in small pieces, only half an hour or so on end, after which I literally had to recover.

This may seem like exaggerated, but it's not. This game is by far the scariest I've ever played. Playing as Daniel, you have to re discover who you are and what you're doing in a medieval castle somewhere deep in the German woods. As the game progresses, the story poses more and more questions, and only at the very end did all the pieces come together for me. But it's not the story itself that's particularly scary. It's the way the game puts the player in an extremely vulnerable position, without any means of defense (no swords or guns in this one!) and only some tinderboxes and a lantern as a means to progress through the increasingly unsettling surroundings.

The game is by far the darkest I've ever played. Darkness is actually transformed into one of the game's defining elements: when standing in darkness, Daniel slowly but surely turns mad, and the only way to counter this is either to light some candles with the tinderboxes, or to light your lantern. Since lantern oil is quite scarce, I found myself constantly trying to save it as much as possible. There is a constant looming danger in the form of monsters, who are seldomly to been seen but impose terror upon the player by sound or just by thought. For when a monster finds you, it's almost surely instant death. The game manages to strike the perfect balance between slowly progressing episodes where I was fumbling around in the dark, hiding for monsters and looking for clues or letters, and some scenes where the only option was: run!

It's hard to describe in words exactly why this game got so deep under my skin, though, because it terrified me on an even deeper level that has nothing to do with graphics or game mechanics. I think the theme of man turning into a monster even worse than any monster imagineable struck a resonating chord inside me. I found myself screaming out loud at times, mostly out of utter disgust at what was happening. The game had a very unsettling effect on my, and probably that's why it took me several tries to play and finish it. It's a masterpiece in its genre, yet to be trumped.

Very highly recommended, but not for the faint of heart, nor for heart patients
