"DreadOut" is a horror game playing in an indonesian setting. It is seperated in three acts: 0,1 and 2 where act 0 is equal to the demo of the game. Personally, I found playing Act 0 as first a bit irritating. 

Well, with act 1 the actual story is set in motion. A group of high school students and their teacher Miss Siska are (after taking a wrong turn) arriving at an empty village. You are playing as Linda Meilinda and you start exploring the village together with your friends until you arrive at an old school building, the home of several ghosts.

As for the gameplay: Linda the main protagonist has the ability to fight the ghosts by taking pictures of them with her smart phone. Normally you play in an over the shoulder perspective which changes to first person perspective while using the phone. To help you, especially playing the first time, there are several hint indicators. A red vignette if enemies are nearby, blue if a pickable item is nearby, and a phone glitch if a ghost is in damaging range of your phone. Some of the ghosts are only visible through your phone, others are invincible or have special weak points so you always need to pay attention and can't get to relaxed. The atmosphere of Act 1 is eerie and really tense and you are always on your toes. The area is pretty large and you can loose directions easily. There is interesting stuff and ghosts to find. Starting with Act 2, after the school building, I felt the game got more linear which made it partially easier but it still has a wonderful tense atmosphere. From time to time there are some small jump scares but the game relies more on its atmosphere.

For the Story: The Story of "DreadOut" is interesting but there is a good chance for you to "miss" it completely. Most of the stuff you need you, is shown during your playthrough (Cutscenes, Pictures on the wall, etc.). But it isn't explained to you at all so it can seem confusing. Especially for Act 2 I personally got lost inbetween. There is a greater picture and it is recommanded to play the game again a second time after making yourself a picture of the story. As achievement hunter you need to complete the game several times anyways.

For the completion time: If you know what you have to do you can complete the whole game (including the optional area in the beginning of the game) in around two hours so that is pretty short. But the first time playing you will probably need around 5 6 hours. As an achievement hunter there is a lot to do: Finding easter eggs, hunting down all ghosts, getting the alternative ending and more.

Although I criticize the "narration" style of the game, especially of Act 2 and also Act 0 I can only recommand this game. After completion I read a bit in the forum and read about story interpretations. After doing this you can appreciate the game much more. Maybe you are smart enough to figure out everything yourself. Even with the first time confusing story the game lives so much through its excellent atmosphere and tension. So buy the game, support the developers, complete the game and if you find the time complete it a second time. The game is worth your time.

PS: If you have questions just post them here and I'll try to come back at them as fast as possible.
PPS: I have ignored the graphical aspects of the game since I don't care for them to much. But some users reported glitches and other problems. Also the textures are somewhat dated. If you are not a "graphic      " it shouldn't bother you too much.
