DreadOut is an Indonesian survival horror game that takes inspiration from the Fatal Frame franchise, and pulls a lot from Indonesian myths and folklore.

You play as a non talkative protagonist known as Linda, who with a few friends is on a car trip, but they stumble upon a weird deserted city that isn't marked on their map. The friends go to investigate the town, and soon get wrapped up in some severe hauntings from the strange ghost that start coming out when night falls.

The game has a low budget, and it shows. Graphically everything looks outdated, with low res textures, odd character animations, and the like. There's also no real time shadows. The game also has a few bugs. I didn't encounter anything game breaking, but a few 'look through the wall with the camera', 'get stuck on an object for a moment', 'that character is levitating,' type of bugs, However, something I found interesting was that they didn't copy and paste many models. There were a lot of posters around town, and each one was legitimately different. Same with pictures, and just small details all about.Outside of a few chairs or piles of garbage, most of the models were unique to each other, and I was surprised the developers didn't take many shortcuts.

Mentioning this, something I noticed about the game is that there were a lot of secrets and original assets used for things that most players would probably not even end up finding or seeing. There's more I have to say on the topic, but I'll get back to this in a bit.

The game has legitimately great atmosphere. There are some fantastic scares, the feeling of unnerve that is caused by the game. It has an atmosphere to it that most horror games these days are missing from the days of old, sort of a combination of dread and excitement for what's going to come next. The atmosphere and scares are more akin to something like Fatal Frame or Kuon than Amnesia or Outlast, I should mention. Recommended at night and in darkness, with headphones.

This is backed by fantastic audio design. The music is great, the sounds are great. Voicing is okay, a bit cheesy but enjoyably so. However, with the music, how it is and how it's used in the game, is really effective, and also I can mention unique. The music is very different than any other horror game I have played, but very effective. And how the music transitions with events going on is very well done. The audio is also unnerving, and sometimes hearing a weird sound, even without knowing its source or even without it leading to anything, raised the tension. It sometimes gets hard to tell if a sound you just heard is part of the music, or something in the environment, but I say this as a good thing.

And the game does not lie on its laurels. By this I mean a lot happens, and the game never throws the same thing at you twice. I was honestly surprised by the number of ghosts there are in this game, there were a lot more than I was anticipating. Some great enemy variety, and you fight each ghost really only once or twice, there was not a single ghost I think the game threw at you a third time. And the 'events' that happen, like scares or atmospheric additions, were all incredibly varied too. This definitely helped to raise the intrigue as you never knew what might be coming next, and some of what happens really goes into the unexpected.

Combat is similar to Fatal Frame, but a bit more simplistic. There isn't a charge rate like Fatal Frame, or a point system, but the closer enemies are, the more you damage them when you take a shot. And if you attack them right before they attack you, you deliver additional damage.

Even the puzzles are well done and intelligent. Figuring out what to do is fun, and they do a good job at laying out clues to what you need to do to help piece it all together. They have clever hints and details, while not being extremely obvious either. However, it should be mentioned that those with less patience and less of a desire to figure out cryptic clues may not like how they're handled. But if you loved puzzles from horror games in the 90s (which have been notably absent in recent years), then you'll likely be quite happy to see some return to form here.

One of the game's biggest draws is some absolutely memorable moments. Several of the ghost encounters are absolutely fantastically handled and designed, the pacing of the game is wonderful for the most part (though may some end up stuck in the school for a while), and there's good variety with all of it. Some of the moments, such as the sit down with Ira or the whole Mansion location, are absolutely stellar, and strike me as quality horror moments, something that has been missing from so many horror games, the sort of intrigue, weirdness, and execution that leads these moment to be gripping and chilling.

What they have here is fantastic, it legitimately is one of the best classic styled survival horror games to release in the last few years, and I think genre enthusiast who like certain elements of horror games that have been absent since the days of old will really appreciate the game. It's well paced, well executed, and well realized. It's low budget, but those who enjoy the genre likely won't be bothered by this, some absolutely fantastic horror games over the years have been decidedly low budget. The developers only had $26k to make the game, but they have managed to with that make a very confident horror game, and honestly some of the most fun I've had in a horror game in a while.

The weird thing is the secrets I mentioned earlier. There are complete sections of the game you could miss if you don't do some exploration. There are ghosts you won't fight unless you go off the beaten path. A tip to the wise is when it turns night time and before you enter the school, don't enter the school like the game suggests and instead head back towards the town you just came from. There are different types of ghosts if you head backwards at this point that you'll never encounter in the main game. And little hidden areas and easter eggs to uncover all about. So on that front, there is some really cool optional content to explore in the game.

There's also a few cool unlockables. Once you complete the game, you unlock additional outfits, all of which are actually pretty well designed, and can be used on a second and later playthrough.

There's also a few side areas you can explore right now that don't really lead to anything, which I can only guess are there right now for the possible future Free Roam Mode (a lot of buildings and side areas off the beaten path are currently inaccessible or kind of barren right now, and I assume will be open in the free roam mode the developers are working on). 

I want DreadOut to succeed. I really liked what was here, I'd even go as far to say this is the best attempt at making a 'classic' style horror game to release in the last few years, really having an understanding of those gripping elements that made those games enjoyable (a deeper level of meaning and not just superficially being classic styled with fixed camera angles and tank controls). The whole game will probably take someone 4   9 hours, depending on how much they explore and find hidden areas and how long they take on puzzles.

DreadOut is completely worth experiencing. It's tense, sometimes terrifying, has the right amount of weirdness to it, some absolutely stellar moments, and is actually a lot of fun. Its low budget shows, especially in the graphics department, but through clever design, good execution, and variety at hand, manages to be a fun and memorable experience.
