DreadOut is a call back to the games of the past, it's a old formula revived and updated for the new generation.

The first thing that stands this game apart from any games I've seen lately are the attention to detail in the environments. I spent my first playthrough scanning the landscape and checking each room, great care has been taken in the design of the levels and it's refreshing to have situations where you can get to a lonely dead end that serves little purpose other than to let you explore (but only sometimes are you alone). The controls work well for the game as well and didn't do anything to hinder the gameplay but the lack of a 180 degree turn is sorely missed in some encounters that need some tight turning but it still has tighter controls than Fatal Frame, another game DreadOut takes some ques from. The game also doesn't hold your hand, there's a handy "How to Play" in the menu that I recommend you get familiar with, and get use to using the camera to check things out!

The sound is great as well, I haven't been entranced by atmospheric sound and music since the days of the first Silent Hill entries. Even if there's no immediate threat I found myself on edge just walking around due to the haunting sounds as I explored the game.

I can highly recommend this game and look eagerly forward to the release of Act 2 and the subsequent Free Roam mode. Make sure you check out the demo as well, it's its own stand alone level that you definately don't want to miss. At the time of this review I couldn't get the download to work through Steam but it should be working on release.

But the game does have some negatives, the first is the length. It's only 2 hours (with figuring out puzzles the first time, I was stumped a couple of them for a good while) if you go in blind so right now there isn't much.. So, it's a negative but when the rest of the game comes out it should pad it more, since I'm more disappointed that there's less game for me to play right now. Second, Death is handled differently in this game, I'll try not to spoil anything but you always get a second chance with more time. There were some technical issues but they've already been fixed by the developer so I won't count those.

Either way, it's great! Might not be too long (for now) but it's an amazing experience!

And remember this when you get the game... when night falls stay outside for awhile before going indoors..
