Anyone who has played and enjoyed "old school" survival horror, such as the Fatal Frame/Project Zero games or the first four installments of the Silent Hill series, will probably find something to like about this game. DreadOut borrows A LOT of elements from these two series, from the overall atmosphere of the enivronments to the use of a flashlight and an otherwise mundane, non threatening object as a means of combat.

Graphically, it's good. It's not stupendous, but it's certainly not horrible either. They're about on par with what you would see in some the better PS2 games, and I mean that in a good way. The ghost designs are well done, especially the larger ones. They all look menacing and the fact that you have to photograph them to drive them off just makes them that much more unnerving. Unfortunately, some of them you may miss if you just press on through the game without doing some exploration outside of the school. The sound design is very well executed, from the ghost sounds to the overall ambience of the evironments. Since the game shrouds you in darkness and limits your field of vision when you do have your light on, sound is you're only indication of what is lurking around you before the visual cues appear. The music also enhances the atmosphere. There was one specific point in the game where the music was so eeire and off putting that I was hesitant to press on any further. The voice acting is well done, at least the English is. I haven't played with Indonesian audio yet but I'd imagine the lip syncing may be better. The silent protagonist was also a good choice. It's better than listening to someone talk to themselves for the entire length of the game. The overall design of the game shows that a lot of thought was put into making it interesting without it being too cliched. The design of the school seems mazelike and unless you're paying attention to the signs above the classroom doors, it's easy to feel somewhat lost and like you're walking in circles. The puzzles are inventive, requiring you to use the camera to inspect the environment to find the solution rather than just finding a key lying around. The puzzles remind me of the kind you would come across in the early days of Silent Hill.

Of course, there are a few gripes. Some of the textures look a little flat in spots. It's particularly noticable in the areas of the game that take place in the daytime. And if you don't take the time to really explore the environments, the game can seem rather short. There's a little replay value, if only to get the achievements, but not much. I was also somewhat irked by the fact that in the demo you could see the environment on the phone screen as you wandered around, even when you weren't in camera view. This isn't in the full game and it's a bit of a bummer. The phone screen is blank until you enter camera view. I know it's minor and it doesn't really affect gameplay, but I thought it was a nice touch and would have been worked into the mechanics somehow. For example: as you're looking around the environment you may notice something pass across the phone's screen that you don't see in normal view, prompting you to go into camera view for closer inspection. Like I said, nothing major. More a personal opinion.

All in all, it's a well executed game and fans of classic console style survival horror will enjoy this. I just hope the next act will be released in a timely manner.
