I'm a horror games maniac. I've played and finished nearly every game out there that was meant to get you to sh t your pants countless times. And very few games were able to scare me, but this game... errrm... Let's put it this way... I had to take a break after every 10 mins of gameplay. 
Please allow me to share my experience with you. I love a challenge, so I went with the Insane mode (Max difficulty) but I got a box talking nonsense about ultimate heart attack experience, no checkpoints and asking if I'm ready to suffer? Right... So I went with the Nightmare mode instead. Started the game, I was pretty excited and astonished by the graphics, as it's very rare to find such atmospheric horror game with brilliant graphics, which got me more into the mood thinking it was going to be so much fun. But no, it wasn't fun, it was dark! Too dark! And the thought of potentially running out of batteries made me consider turning on my room lights. Then came the basement part, the stairs leading down a black path made me way too uncomfortable. Being scared increseases focus, but I don't think I even blinked. When I made it, I felt so relieved and awesome, but little did I know. Of course there's more, I mean it's only been like 20 minutes. And of course, it had to be 
the sewers! Why are there bloody sewers in nearly every game! Why crawl in a sh t filled tunnel to escape a bloody million foot tall building, like the situation wasn't sh tty enough, PLUS, throwing impotents from The Hills Have Eyes at you when you open doors!!
But anyway, after a while I got used to the game, and even to playing it in the dark, wasn't jumping or anything, and it was rather amusing to encounter nude men with huge bodies and derieres :3. And I got very caught up with the story and gameplay, impressed by how brave I was for a girl, having a blast. And then... juuuust when I thought it wasn't as scary anymore, it got 90000 times scarier :'( My assurance of salvation at the sight of the exit sign right before my eyes only lasted for seconds. I couldn't wait to go outside, but when I did, I wished to go back inside. It was pitch black, velvet, banshee stormy, it sounded like a screaming baby. I visualised everything as one of them, a monster or whatever they were, everytime a lightning would strike. It was horrible, I couldn't see anything, could only hear. The only thing that caught my eyes was my battery nearly dead. And the protagonist crapping his pants got me even more traumatized. :'( The camera at that point was useless and I had no choice but to keep running with my heart in my stomach. Atlast, found the key, opened the door, and BAM, something showed up right at the door and vanished, made me scream at the top of my lungs. I quit, had enough, and not playing it again for sometime I think.
What I'm trying to say is, this game is not scary, it's CRUEL!! Its goal is to terrify you, traumatize you, and send you to one of those asylums eventually. If you want to survive, and I mean in real life, make sure you're so high on cocaine, or never sober when you play, because it could really give you a heart attack, not kidding. 10/10.
