"Engrossing, stimulating and gripping, the definitive proof that survival horror is alive and well fed in indie gaming."

Outlast is the first game created at Red Barrels, a relatively recent indie company based in Montreal, Canada. Indie gaming has been rising in notoriety in the last five years, reviving old school genres, like platforming and horror, and offering generally good and refreshing experiences. Red Barrels, a team made of no more than a handful of veteran dissidents from BIG companies (like Ubisoft, Naughty Dog and EA), and graduates from NAD (National Animation and Design) Center, delivers just that: a good, refreshing experience that shows, just as Amnesia did, that the horror genre is still thriving and innovative, especially in the indie part of the industry. 


You play as Miles Upshur, an investigative journalist that seeks to uncover the truth behind Murkoff Corporation and its operations at Mount Massive Asylum, in Colorado. As any true horror game protagonist...hrm, I mean, as any true journalist, he decides to force his way in. However, bad luck strikes, and Miles sees himself trapped as (and with) the inmates of the asylum, with nothing but his camcorder.

The story revolves around the 'predicaments' that Miles has to go through in his attempt to escape. Most or all of them are caused by the asylum's inmates, which have taken control of it after a series of shady events, research and experiments. Yeah, cliche as hell itself, but that's how you know it's a horror game. I mean, if it's stupid but it works, it's not stupid. What I'm trying to say is: what matters is how it's worked out. How it's developed, and how it's 'acted'. And it is rather well, I must say. The whole mood is ingeniously maintained at the same tone throughout the game, and the tone is panic struck after a marathon racing heart beat. Mostly because there is no combat. The only thing you can do besides recording a lunatic violating a dead body, is flee from said lunatic when it goes ape sh*t on you. Apart for some short interludes, most of your time will be spent either trying to get somewhere while running from someone who is chasing you, or asking yourself how long it has been since the last jump scare, and dreading the impending proximity of the next. 

I can't emphasize enough how much I love this game's atmosphere. The thrill of carefully opening a door and peer inside to make sure it's safe, or make it to a room before a chaser, and slam the door just barely before he gets there, to slow him down. Looking around a corner or waiting in a locker before the coast is clear, praying that the guy who's after you won't check the one you're in...The sole exception to this rule is the abundance of batteries (needed to use the camera, and its night vision feature), which are sometimes placed in meaningful places, like next to a radio, but, unfortunately, most are just scattered around. It's not that it's not realistic, but it kinda of spoils the fear of running out of something we desperately need. However, in my second playthrough, I didn't find this to be such an issue, as I wasted far more batteries using night vision, looking for all the documents scattered in the environment (that serve for exactly what you think they serve).

But getting back on the discussion of the story, the mood is also really well achieved and maintained when it comes to the characters you meet. They're all completely deranged and insane, obviously, but most have relevant personalities and a good design behind them. I'll point out two examples. First there's this duo you meet relatively early in the game that, albeit their savage and aggressive look and stance, have a somewhat cheeky, but nevertheless dark, dialogue between themselves. Second, sometimes you'll find harmless characters, which come as a great complement to the regular loud murdering sicko. They'll be just minding their business, doing like...things crazy people do.

Many say that the story takes a sour turn in the last hour or so, but I don't think it does. What basically happens is, the answer to something that is happening at the asylum slowly begins to turn mythological...but you also feel like it could be dismissed as an illusion or a mirage or something like that. It's never actually explained except in the very end, and this part is somewhat different from the rest of the game. But, it's still very exciting and climatic. The ending is worth it, and the plot twist is probably not what you expected.

In the graphics department, I'll kick it off by praising what I think this game does best, and that is lighting. I mean, it's nothing short of perfectly adequate and neatly executed. The light fills the room like it's supposed to, never too dark, never too bright. It really maintains the overall consistency and tone of the game in the best way. But it's even better when there is NO light. Then, Miles will need to use his camcorder handy night vision feature, which is implemented in a terrific way, not only as a graphical treat but also as a neat gameplay mechanic. The environment is sometimes confusing, but not enough to be a bad thing (it's a horror game, after all, and for better or for worse, it adds to the panic and agitation). The environment design fits the ruined and decadent asylum ambiance like a glove, just like the grainy effects on the screen, when you're using the camera, match the found footage effect. The animations are competent, not awesome, but, in general the graphics are great. 

The sound is also top notch, from the simplest sound effect to voice acting, even the musical score played when you're being chased. I can't point out one sound I was displeased to hear or that I felt didn't belong there.

In conclusion, I say that Outlast is a definite must buy for all horror games fans. At 20 bucks, it offers one of the best experiences of the genre. It highlights the indie gaming quality and stands as one of the best examples of it (along many other, and increasingly more). The only sour feeling I had playing this game was when I finished it. The game is short (it only takes 5 hours or so) but it doesn't feel short. And that is the mark of a great game.
