Lights, Camera... crap your pants.

  

Outlast Whistleblower Update

Outlast Whistleblower is the prequel to Outlast, and pretty much continues the trend and atmosphere experienced in the base game. If you were a fan of the first game's intense a atmosphere, and scare teasing you will enjoy the DLC.

It tells the story of a Waylon Parks The Whistleblower who informs Miles of the atrocities happening in Asylum. There are more than a few nods and mentions to the base game, which will keep the fans happy and provide plenty of 'Aaaaaaah I remember...' moments.

There's just something about the Outlast series that I really like. I'm not sure if it's the presentation, or the sense of hopelessness mixed with the strong desire to survive the main characters have. Perhaps it's something to do with how I always come away feeling like the engine and experience would make the ideal 'Alien' survival game.
If Alien: Isolation is anywhere near Outlast in terms of presentation, story, style, sounding and lightning they'll be onto an instant hit with me.
That feeling of slowly pacing yourself through the corridors of Mount Massive, peeking your head around the corner to scout the junction. Your heartbeat rising as you see a suspected insane inmate ready to tell you a secret... the sound of chains... the musical ques all work together to create a really gripping experience.

I'm not one to scare easily, but this game (and the DLC) got me a fair few times. Not only with the well timed and scripted jump scares, but with the sense of panic that can (and will) takeover as you scramble away from foes determined to cook, fix or marry you. It's one of the few games were you CAN'T fight and flight is your only friend. Running and scramble over objects, squeezing through gaps and hiding in lockers or under beds has never felt so 'real'.
The realism is another aspect that works so well for the game. I felt like I HAD to go slowly, I didn't want to run and announce my arrival and position with the heavy stomps of footsteps.
It's not only the speed of the game, it's the First Person sway and bobbing. I know some people aren't a fan of the simulated movement of the head however it works so well in Outlast and really helps you believe you're the protagonist.

Overall Outlast   Whistleblower DLC is well worth the time, especially if you played the base game. Sure it has similar elements to Outlast, but that's the beauty of it for me. Play this in the dark.

Just make sure your other half doesn't burst through the door 2am in the morning, turns the lights on and scares the crap out of you...
