This game is half the price of Triple A titles and yet I have enjoyed this more than any game I've bought for this price or higher in the past three years. This game was a mere 30 dollars and I got hours of gameplay, all of which were fantastic. The game, unlike most, is story driven, not based upon action or, much unlike even Amnesia, running and hiding. Although yes, in this game you DO have to hide from time to time, it's not nearly as excessive as in Amnesia.
This game is focused more on story, environment, and atmosphere than anything elsee. Without spoiling anything, I can say that this game is breathtakingly beautiful at times, as well as beautifully ambigious.

PROS:
 Long Game; hours of enjoyable gamplay
 No Repeated environments [No copy pasted areas]
 Splendid atmosphere setup
 Minimal Jumpscares, horror comes from atmosphere and situational threats
 Clear and easy to follow storyline (Very Ambiguous, however the story is revealed as you play)
 Rewards exploration with extra plot information
 VERY HIGH attention to detail within the environment, lots of small features that aren't needed, but add to immersion
 Fantastic Graphics
 Great voice acting
 Smooth, clean animations
 Occasional easy puzzles
 Exploration IS optional [Although I do recommend it]
 Relatable Characters
 Interesting Character Design

CONS:
 Streamlined, but still Linear plot
 Choices are offered, however they don't affect the story [Some affected gameplay briefly]
 Max Settings Are Somewhat strenuous for a PC
 VERY Ambiguous
 Hiding From Enemies Slows Down Gameplay
 Checkpoints are sometimes too far apart
 Objective not always crystal clear [Mostly is, however]
 THAT'S ALL I CAN THINK OF


Personal Thoughts [NO SPOILERS]

I didn't rush through this game, I explored every area except one, and you can see how long I played this game. For only 30 dollars, I got hours of gameplay, and I enjoyed every single bit of it. Not once did I think "Ugh...can I just get past this already?" All areas were both vivid and diverse, which honestly stuns me. The devs could have gotten away with copy pasting a lot of this game's environments, however they are constantly different. EXAMPLE: I specifically remember 7 kitchens. Not a single kitchen was the same...and it's a kitchen, that's not even important to the game. But they always differed in design and layout. The game has so much painstaking detail that I just stopped from time to time and had to remind myself..."People made this..."

I've played, and do play a lot of games, and I've not enjoyed a game like this in ages. I was invested in the story, and best of all, as someone who isn't scared by movies or games, I was able to feel chills in this game. Not from the presence of enemies, but from the ambiguity of the story, the atmosphere, and the potential threat of enemies. This game's sense of atmosphere was like nothing else I've seen in a large number of games I've played, and the world, not just the level design, but the world it sets up is just...awe inspiring. I was taken aback with each sight I saw, and all the ways they kept the plot flowing. No part was too slow, none too fast, and the enemy sequences were ever over done, at least not to my taste.

This game had me do a lot more than just play, it had me think as well. Not because of puzzles, but because of the story. It constantly had me putting more thought into what is happening than most books even can make me do. The way these developers tell a story is just unparalleled, and I am still in awe over how stunningly fun and enthralling this game was.

This is the kind of game where, if I had friends, they would hate me because I wouldn't be able to shut my mouth about just how much I loved it, and just how strongly I recommend it. This game is like none other, and honestly, I WILL be replaying it at some point. Not because the game will have more to offer, but because it was just...that...fun. It was beautiful. It was vivid. It was new. And without a doubt, I would recommend this to anyone who ever asked for a good game, a great game, or hell...maybe even a perfect game. You don't get much closer than this.
