to start off, there's not gonna be any story spoilers here because I think the story is one of the bigger strong points of the game. Hopefully this review isn't too rambly and chaotic, sorry if it is.

I have some mixed feelings about this game as a long time fan of Penumbra and Amnesia: Dark Decent. (not Machine for Pigs.) I think this game is pretty great, but it is not without its flaws.

First of all, I know no one is going to like hearing this if you're a fan of the series, but this is more of a sequel to Machine for Pigs than it is Dark Decent of Penumbra. Gameplay wise that is. There's no inventory screen again in this, there's no insanity, there's no health items. There is some form of health, and you can actually die, but it's a little weird and a bit too shallow for my taste.

That being said, though, if I am going to call it more of a gameplay sequel to Machine for Pigs, it is a great sequel. It improved upon that game in almost every single way.

Most importantly, you can throw EVERYTHING around again. Like in Dark Decent. It's just fun to do that. In a spooky game like this, it's great to sometimes just have fun with the physics and throw stuff around. To me, it tells me that the devs say "hey, if you want to mess around go ahead, that's cool." In machine for pigs they essentially say "No fun allowed, this is a serious story, screw you, play it how we intended or get out."

The gameplay is pretty shallow, but as you progress you do actually get much more involved which is why I recommend this game in the first place. At first, I really thought this would be another walking simulator since nothing seemed to happen. But as you go on, the monsters and even the areas expand a bit and you find yourself not just walking forward. There ends up being more puzzles as well and it does keep you playing. I don't think it's as much gameplay as Amnesia or maybe even Penumbra, but I don't totally mind because this game does some things extremely well.

First and most importantly of all, the game's sound design is amazing. Amnesia had great spooky sounds, ambience, and music, and Soma just blows it out of the park. Many people praise this game for being atmospheric and that's because the sounds in this game are just great. There's so many of them. When you're messing around with physics, you can see how almost every object makes different noises against different surfaces or other objects. There's always thumping and ocean noises or other strange noises going on that keeps you on edge, thinking maybe a monster is around. I might be jumping to conclusions, but I was reminded of Myst in a way.

Second, the lighting, I feel is really good in this game as well and also really adds to the atmosphere. The way it's presented really sucks you in to the environments. When you look into the distance, you'll see faint red lights, almost like strange monster eyes staring at you. You'll focus on those and as you get closer, you'll see its just boat lights, or something else.

Third is the graphics. They're much much better than all the previous games. Models included. The Amnesia/Penumbra series never did very well with models or animations, and while they still aren't the best, they are very good compared to the previous games in the series,

A bit on the monsters without any spoilers really. They also actively get better as the game progresses. You get a little taste of Amnesia Dark Decent style monster as well.

Now for the final part, I'll talk about the character a bit, and a tiny nothing about the story. There won't be any spoilers at all. This part reminds me a lot of Penumbra. The main character is a bit of a normal dude, and I think he's a bit TOO normal for my tastes, but once again as you progress in the story I think he does well. There's a lot of psychological parts in the game where your main character, Simon, will probably be parroting your own thoughts fairly well, and it honestly does make you think about your own sense of self. If you are into that, that is. I realize that not everyone really cares about that.

This probably comes down to personal taste, but I really liked Daniel from Dark Decent. But I don't think a character like this would work in this game at all, really. I think it was a bit necessary for Simon to be a very normal guy, so it's kind of up to you on that. I can understand complaints about Simon possibly being too boring.

I think I have rambled enough here and will try to end the review finally and sum up my thoughts. Soma is a great story game. The gameplay has been slightly too stripped for my taste, but they handle it pretty well and do keep you occupied and playing as it goes on. Sound, lighting, graphics are great and make an amazing atmosphere. The best atmosphere in the series. (I say series because I think Soma is also linked to the previous games in someway or another.)

Just keep in mind that this game is still a bit of a walking simulator. If you are okay with that, then I think you will really enjoy this interesting and genuinely scary game. (although I am scared of everything.) There's also basically no jumpscares in the game, which I appreciate a lot. I say basically, because the one that did happen was probably my fault for looking around in the wrong directions.

So if this sounds good to you, go for it. I think it's worth the price.
