If you like games with somewhat of a warped story, are scared of the deep blue ocean and want to look into one of the millions of possibilities of the Earth's future, then this is a game for you.

This game features a man who goes in for a simple brain scan, normal right? (well if you have a reason to go every week that is) and has his whole World flipped upside down, literally. I won't go too much into the story, I wouldn't like to spoil it for you, but the game is twisted, and after your brain scan, you wake up over 100 years into the future, underwater.

The game has a phenomenal soundtrack, whether you're safe or near an enemy, there's always going to be a sound or effect that keeps the hairs on your balls standing tall. There are plenty of memories and buffers to find, which opens up a vast story through the minds of other people that were in the station(s) long before you appeared there to 'clean up' the mess.

There are a variety of different monsters/creatures/robots/whatever the hell they are to avoid, sneak past and     ing run from. Some will have you confused, worried and running with a heavy heartbeat. Checking a guide would help but I highly recommend just going in with little information and having the thrill of     ing yourself over a few times.

The graphics are very good, and effective. The underwater parts of the game well amazing and really helped with the immersion alongside the sounds. There were some areas of low perfomance with FPS but after an update earlier on, these seemed to have been fixed, alongwith loading times being slightly better.

My opinion of this game is 10/10, would not play again, for the simple fact that it's tremendous and scary. It has been a while since I played a game like this. The soundtrack is amazing, the story is amazing, the ending is a twist but amazing, and everything about it is great. There a re a few moral choices but lead to an inevitable conclusion I believe, however this doesn't necessarily mean it's a bad thing.

SOMA review is finished   Wasdom Kung The Pun Master.
