First off, let me say that i absolutely loved SOMA. The setting, the atmosphere, the sound design, the story and the gameplay, all came together perfectly to form an amazing experience. Right after i beat it, i dove right back in for another playthrough to pick up any details i might have missed the first time around. So far ive put in over 100 hours to a 8 11 hour game (it took me 16 to complete the first time). About half of that 100 was for taking screenshots, but that's just a testament to how compelling the world of SOMA really is.

Take the underwater setting of Rapture from Bioshock, throw in a bit of the industrial architecture of the Ishimura from Dead Space, add the sci fi station aesthetic of Sevastopol from Alien Isolation and the Von Braun from System Shock 2 and finally, mix the creepy, disturbing atmosphere of all 4 of those games together and you have PATHOS II, the sprawling underwater research facility, set deep beneath the Atlantic ocean. With gameplay taking place about 50% inside of the different areas and 50% outside, no matter where you are, you really feel the desolation and crushing weight of the world you're exploring. As the game progresses you head deeper and deeper into the ocean, which only adds to the already harsh and unnerving experience. The later areas were some of the most intense things ive played in a while. Frictional Games really nailed the underwater look and feel in SOMA.

Graphically the game has all kinds of fitting things going for it that help draw you into its world. The inky black shadows broken up by the flickering lights give off the necessary horror vibes and the glitchy computer screens that look like they're crying out for help make you anxious about even touching them. The textures, while not super high res, are right on target to show the broken down state of the facility and the hazy depth of field during the outside segments perfectly suits the blurred vision you get from being underwater. Dirt particles swirl around you every step of the way while you're in the water, enhancing the murkiness, which makes you feel almost lost and hopeless at times. Inside the facility you'll find broken pipes, dangling wires and foggy rooms, while out in the ocean you'll come across all kinds fish, crabs, turtles and even shrimp. Another great addition to the game is its sound design. The somber music blends in amazingly to the game as a whole, never taking you out of the moment, only adding to it. And then there are the sound effects, which are imperative to the experience. They added so much tension and believability to PATHOS II. This is definitely one of those games where you want the headphones on with the volume turned up and the lights all the way off.

I felt the gameplay was well balanced too, with large areas to explore at your own pace broken up by some fun and challenging puzzles, as well as a few run and hide sections. The monsters were quite ghoulish and scary and it was thrilling being chased and hiding from them. During the slower parts, you'll find yourself looking into every room, desk drawer and computer, searching for details about this grim story you're a part of. And what an interesting story it is. While the game starts slow, the narrative keeps building until you're completely submerged mentally in the world and characters around you. Even after the game was through, i couldn't help but continue to think about what i had just played and the choices i had made during my journey.

SOMA is a fantastic, well put together game and I can't recommend it enough. If you're looking for a dark, moody, story driven game that has a Bio/System Shock mixed with Alien Isolation feel, i think you'll really enjoy this as well!

Thanks to Frictional Games and Brian at Evolve Pr for the review copy.
