SOMA is an ambitious work of science fiction which grapples with questions of consciousness and what it truly means to be human.Things never get boring in SOMA, thanks to an engaging story.

The developer, Frictional Games, are masters of the survival horror genre, and it shows, as some areas invoke fear before you even see a monstrous robotic being. I expected nothing less from the developer behind Amnesia: The Dark Descent and I have to say, they've out done themselves this time.

While some scares are unquestionably intense and terrifying, other monsters like the one you meet in Lambda are more annoying than scary. The other half of the game consists of puzzle solving and exploration making this game feel more open than the previous Penumbra or Amnesia games. However, at times and particularly in under water sections, the freedom creates unfortunate pacing problems. I found the lack of maps / "you are here" signs in the under water section hindered my progression. I was irritated that I spent almost 2 hours at one particular station looking for a zepplin control panel to take me to the next area. There is no marking to indicate where your next objective lies, and a great deal of time can be spent trying to find things.

Story!

Like the very best horror stories, SOMA maintains an unsettling level of ambiguity and dread, which has you doubting everyone and everything around you. The main character, Simon, wakes up aboard a dilapidated, abandoned research facility at the bottom of the ocean shortly after having his brain scanned by a doctor.
The prequel story of PATHOS 2 can be pieced together by frequently encountered (but often unreliable) black boxes. It's genuinely disconcerting, and few games play with ambiguity so well while telling a story that players can follow.

Simon's awakening is prefaced by a famous quote from Philip K.     : "Reality is that which, when you stop believing in it, doesn't go away." The quote alludes to the particular type of uncertainty at play; as you soon meet a variety of malfunctioning robots who talk and behave like they are real humans.

You soon realise these robots don't perceive themselves to be machines at all, since they're running digital and identical copies of a person's mind scanned for the A.R.K Project. This plot point opens your mind to philosophical questions to be tackled. At first, Simon thinks these machines are being remote controlled, functioning as avatars for people located elsewhere.

These robots aren't sleek, fleshy androids like the "Working Joes" in Alien Isolation.
Although slightly bipedal, they're rusty, broken down heaps of metal, spewing oil, yet this only intensifies the tragedy of the situation. They believe themselves to be human, and can't understand why you can't see them as such.

It's simultaneously intriguing and tragic, and when you're given the choice to unplug these machines or "save them", SOMA throws up some fascinating dilemmas which I've thought more and more about since finishing it.
Did I do the right thing by killing Amy? Or could I have saved her? Should I have saved Carl instead of electrocuting him?
These were questions I asked myself upon dealing with their consequences.


Hide and Seek Gameplay

SOMA is fascinating on multiple levels. It has fewer original ideas than amnesia did, but ultimately it's built upon the framework of Amnesia with the 'hide in a corner crying as the monster slowly approaches' feel to the gameplay.

Gameplay involves cowering in corners or behind doors waiting for the big bad thing to lose interest and wander out of the area you happen to be in. The robots infected by a rogue, self replicating AI are intimidating and scary, but after a while they become frustrating since there's no discernible way to avoid them.

For instance, Amnesia had a mechanic at your disposal that gave the player the ability to pick up objects and throw them to lure a creature away to investigate a noise. Sadly, the mechanic has been removed from SOMA.

Puzzles!

Exploration and puzzle solving fill in the rest of SOMA's gameplay. While some of its research stations are dimly lit and streaked with blood, there's a surprising amount of variety to be discovered. Horrible, claustrophobic places where cables wrap around objects like sinew on bone. In fact, one of SOMA's most consistently terrifying sequences takes place in the Mariana trench and there's a rather hungry sea creature after you.
Puzzles are more infuriating, however. There are a couple of decent ones, with some of the best puzzles being linked to SOMA's premise.
It entails booting up a 'person's' consciousness and manipulating their reality via an operating system, in order to extract valuable information. It made me think about how people torture Sims and I found that it wasnt so different...


Verdict:
SOMA is an interesting game, its a masterpiece of both horror and storytelling.
It's horrific setting, monsters, choices and dark subject give this game a unique feel even if the horror genre is over done in todays market.

Score:
9/10 
