Amazing horror game mixed with a puzzle game!

+Compared to Amnesia: TDD, I found this one much scarier and also harder. (My opinion, seems to vary a lot between different people though)
+No loading screens that break immersion.
+Amazing sound design; you can't differenciate ambient or physics sounds from actual sound triggers. Every object has a unique sound to it as well.
+It's not really possible to "outsmart" the AI, and it got a whole lot better at hearing you as well.
+Really enjoyable story to it. You never knew what'd happen next!
+Visually incredibly gorgeous, especially for an indie game! Huge environments and pleasing to look at.
+No inventory system where you have to manage resources, everything is inside of the game world, which also keeps up immersion.
+There's many many monsters and they all work completely different.
+When loading a saved file, you get reminded where you left off and what you had to do. Helps a lot if you take longer breaks from the game.

There's a few things I noticed, and while they weren't really too annoying while I played, I do want to mention them:

 Still has a few bugs and crashes in it, which can actually make you permanently stuck at times (unless you reload an earlier save).
 Some monster parts really stretch out and get tiring over time, especially if you have no physics objects nearby to lure the monster away with sound.
 Not sure if this is only the case for me, but I've had incredibly long initial loading times. Around 2 minutes if I just launched the game and hit "Continue".
 A few times, it was hard to see what you had to do in a puzzle, if there's something hidden behind a panel for example, it can be hard to find without looking it up online.
 With the amount of names you get in the story, it's hard to keep track of who's who. Sometimes you hear a name but are unsure if it is relevant, if you forget who it is and what not.
 The game has jumpscares. May add to the atmosphere/story, but mostly are just forcing you to be scared (especially the one inside of Omicron is just redundant and doesn't add much at all)

If you are a fan of good horror games and liked Amnesia: TDD, this definitely will be for you!
