Well, well, Frictional have come a long way since Penumbra, haven't they? In the best possible sense, I might add, which is to say: Not TOOOOOO long a way! If the Penumbra and Amnesia games could arguably be considered logical extensions of one another, and the first two "franchises" in an exemplary and more or less pioneering trilogy of "first person stealth horror" games, then SOMA (and any sequels it might spawn) is not only the third part of that trilogy of franchises, but the logical extension of those earlier games in pretty much every way, shape and form.

Simply put, many of the hallmarks we've come to know and love are present: Excellent storytelling, highly interactive (and thereby ludicrously immersive) first person environments, horror themes, a protagonist with some form of brain/mental problems, an often hallucinatory breakdown between fantasy and reality, and last but certainly not least, some SCARY     IN'      goin' on. Oh, and did I mention a complete and utter defencelessness against any and all nasties which come your way? Yup, it's all here.

The setting, of course, has changed...and it's as radical and engrossing a departure as the Penumbra series shifting all the way from its oppressive arctic base land to Amnesia: The Dark Descent's spooky medieval castle. This time around, in SOMA, we have a hi tech underwater facility (and its surrounding seas), which we are ushered into after a brief intro which strongly recalls Philip K.      and Total Recall (influences which they're hardly trying to deny, considering they QUOTE the guy before the gameplay proper even begins)! And suffice it to say, it all gets substantially more     ed up from there.

In many ways, this is also arguably Frictional's most, erm, "accomplished" game, given that they've split the difference between their own past games and The Chinese Room's somewhat infamous Amnesia sequel. That is to say, by removing borderline inconsequential nonsense like The Dark Descent's healing items and sanity systems, but at the same time not taking things to quite the extreme that Machine For Pigs did in terms of favouring "storytelling" so massively over "gameplay". So for all you nay sayers of The Chinese Room's contribution to the Frictional legacy...rest assured, the "gameplay" elements have well and truly returned (though minus the really, really freaking difficult puzzles of the Penumbra games, which is a blessing at least as far as this particular dunce is concerned). Now, whether or not any of this makes SOMA a "better" product than any previous game to bear the Frictional name is of course a tad subjective, and probably depends to some degree on whether you greatly favour more antiquated settings over sci fi settings, or vice versa; in that regard, actually, SOMA perhaps more closely resembles the Penumbra series than the Amnesias, while also bringing to mind obvious comparisons with the Bioshock games, System Shock games, Half Life games, Dead Space games, Alien: Isolation, etc etc. It also reminds me quite a bit of a certain late 90s sci fi horror film called Virus, though I'm relieved to report that it's much, much better than that very flawed and highly disappointing Hollywood effort of yesteryear.

Look, it's all a bit of a no brainer, really: If you enjoyed ANY of Frictional's previous products, you're probably gonna like this one. If you enjoyed ALL of Frictional's previous efforts   like my dear self   then you are probably gonna LOVE this one, and should probably just buy it and stop reading reviews by smarmy dickwads like myself, 'cause you know it's gonna be good anyway, right? But what if you've NEVER played a Frictional game? Well, then I'm assuming you're not much of a connoisseur of horror video games, and it's ABOUT BLOODY TIME you gave a Frictional game a go, alright?! I can't promise that you won't be disappointed   NONE of us can promise such ridiculous things   but who knows, you may just see what all the fuss has been about for all these years. Hell, even if you're not that keen on "scary" games, chances are you may still find the sci fi/fantasy elements compelling enough to have a mind shatteringly good time (the outdoors in the ocean stuff is especially epic, and needs to be experienced to be believed)!

There's one thing you can be certain about getting with this game: Quality. With a capital frickin' Q. Oh, and absolutely, positively, hands down one of the most utterly brilliant endings to a video game which you WILL EVER EXPERIENCE. Buy it already.

Verdict: 10/10.
