Intro

You want to feel helpless? Have that sense of adreline when you are faced by something that can easily overpower you if caught?

I would recommend amensia to anyone who enjoys a good horror game that is geared towards making you scream.

Summary

+Great Atmosphere (Great music, Graphics, and theme)
+Great Pacing
+Great Mechanics
+Good Puzzles

Fear Itself

It is so well focused on all the elements on horror that you are unable to even fight back at the enemy. Forever doomed to listen and feel terror down your spine as you try to find cover or some place to take shelter from the sight of the enemy.

Another feature of this game to note is the idea of looking at your enemy makes you panic is quite genius. This allows for more realistic scare tactics such as quick glimpses of the enemy, and constantly trying to avoid its attention.

Issues

While Amnesia is a good horror game there are some glaring faults with the overall game that could makes the game lose the effectiveness of its horror. Continue reading at your own risk.

Predictability

The issue stems from the predictability of the monsters spawning right after puzzles. Once you realize you're safe doing a puzzle you lose the tension and prepare even beforehand for the enemy to spawns by memorizing some closet locations. When a player sees the pattern the threat itself ceases to be horrifying.

Confrontation

The other issue is simply when players choose to confront enemies. Seeing the enemy also takes away to the mystery of what they look like and actually brings down the scare factor. Once they figure out how to trick the AI in more ways or simply stop being so afraid. The game design choices have been good to avoid this happening except for the fact that randomized monsters poof once you confront/die to them and you are pretty much safe till next puzzle.

Flashbacks

Flashbacks do not restructure the place to how it would look like before the guy had amnesia. It would be a better visual comparison to see how much the place suffered structurally as a result.

Taking Control away

Taking control away from the player to demonstrate how the character feels at the moment I feel was a mistake. They do this a few times in the game instead of letting the player himself/herself react. For example in the start of the game when you hear noises above you, your character will fall to the ground with his face near it. I found this really overdramatic and not needed for the already well established atmosphere in this game.

Conclusion

Overall Amensia despite all the flaws that can occur, is a great horror game that tries its best to put fear in you and prolong the scare with smart tactics that are not blatent jump scares.