"My name is..............my name is...........Daniel" and that's the start to this dark and totally engrossing horror game that grab's you by the scruff of the neck and refuse's to let go of you until you have finished it and seen all the horror's that it has to offer.
This is one game i had on my radar for a long time and one i had heard a lot about,either written or from friend's who have played it and the word's "CLASSIC" and "GENRE DEFINING" have been mentioned on more than one occasion.
But i allways take this with a pinch of salt and allways make up my own mind,but trust me when i say that the two phrase's that i just mentioned dont do this game justice as it is both of these and so much more.


You start to play not knowing much other than your name and that for some reason you are here to do something that will affect not only your life but that of other's as well,and as the game progress'es you will come to learn not only the nature for your being here but that of the scream's that haunt the castle you find yourself stuck in.
And that's all i will say on the story of the game as you should find the secret's this game hold's and the many twist's it take's on your own as nothing is more horrifying or scary as not only hearing but witnessing these thing's for yourself first hand instead of after the fact.
The graphic's may look a little dated but trust me when i say they do their job perfectly when it comes to the scare factor and the things you will see not only make you jump (some jump scares in game) but also repulse you as well.
The sound and music in game is top notch and really help's in setting that "OH MY GOD" type atmosphere that a lot of games like this seem to lack,this is down to the work of the composer Mikko Tarmia without who's music the game would (to be honest) not have the impact it does.
He is currently working on Frictional Game's next project SOMA which i for one am waiting for with eager anticipation!!!!



All the spoken dialogue in game is delivered to perfection as well by the voice cast and some of it just has to be heard to be believed as to how good it actually is (and for a game like this that's all about delivering a powerfull story that's what was needed,not some half baked ham handed attempt-"HAMMER HORROR" movie's anyone).
The gameplay range's from puzzle solving (finding items that are laying around in the castle) which can be quite frustrating as some puzzle's can be quite offbeat to running and hiding from the monstrositie's that pervade in this dark and forboding castle from hade's (a lot has been said lately about game's using this mechanic but here it suits the game and makes it more nerve wracking to play).


Now i have said this on occasions before but i like it when developers take a leaf out of other medium's and this game was no acception,you can clearly see that a certain "MR LOVECRAFT" has had some bearing on this game as it is yet another story that would not look out of place on his resume and one that was at once a joy to play and also horrific to be a part of at the same time.
So would you like this game and the answer is yes if you are looking for a classic and one of the best game's the horror genre of games has ever had to offer but if you are not one for this type of game and want something a little more action packed instead of full of story and an interesting and horrific tale then i would look elswhere.
And remember "THE DARK ONE'S ARE ALLWAYS WATCHING,ALLWAYS"

(I DO NOT OWN ANY OF THE CLIPS OF VIDEOS PUT UP IN THIS REVIEW AND THEY BELONG TO THEIR RESPECTIVE OWNERS AND ARE THEIRS BY COPYRIGHT)