This is the best horror game I've ever played. It is all about the atmosphere, ambience and the story. The way that Frictional Games keep pumping the tension during the game is just brilliant. The game is really immersive and if you get into it, you get into the story, get into the feeling of the main character, you'll be fully immersed and will feel all the horrors and fears that awaits behind every corner. That's what happened to me. Being adult, I have never been so frightened by any of the media content: either it is a movie or a game. But the Amnesia: The Dark Descent literally made me be afraid and really swet because of the tension.

And there are no cheap techniques like so-called "jump scares" or anything I can remember of. All the scary feelings are invoked by the game's atmosphere built by amaizing art and graphics, brilliant ambient and sound effects, intriguing story and gameplay elements. It is your mind which, upon this all, will build inside the conclusions of the upcoming danger, which will may or may not happen. But you'll never know what is it this time: true danger or you're deluding yourself.

Worth to mention that gameplay is built upon the idea, that you can't fight and directly resist your enemies with weapon. Therea are no weapond, no direct fights, no health bar, no danget indicators. And me personally like this idea and gameplay philosophy of Frictional Games, which they evolved from the great Penumbra series (in the first game you actually could fight, but avoiding it was the best option all the time). And alongside the dark atmosphere and unknown danger, when you don't know what is happening, who you may face with, and what it will cost you, the best idea that you would come up with in such situation in real life - is try to hide, or somehow avoid the danger, or run as fast as you can. You wouldn't stop to check out whether that butcher is gonna slaughter you or give you a hug.

If you liked what I have described, you should definitely grab and play this game (it's free right now)! There is much more! And I'm sure that upcoming SOMA will be another horror masterpiece. Thank you Frictional Games!