Faulty's scorecard : 

1) Essential purchase
2) Recommended purchase
3) Recommended purchase during a sale
4) Not recommended unless heavily discounted
5) Not even recommended for Steam game collectors

King for a day, a week, a month, a year, an era!

The last Civilization game I played was Civilization III and whilst I can no longer really remember the finer details of the game outside what is the core Civilization experience, I have very fond memories of it. Having only had one PC in the family home at the time it was a constant tussle of bribes, threats and outright clashes with my younger brother as to who was going to get the chance to play. As any good Civ playing person would know, is not a "quick fix" kind of game. Hours would mysteriously vanish right before ones very own eyes so a battle lost here was a sore defeat for that day!

I missed Civ IV, having taken a long break from gaming habouring the notion in my head that I had somehow outgrown playing computer games. Truth be told it was more along the lines of not really being able to afford a decent PC at the time (hey I had just started working and I needed to eat and pay rent). I do know, however, that there is an ardent Civ IV fan base that proclaim IV is still the master game but I am not going to get into that debate since I have no point of reference having never actually played it.


So how does Civilization V compare to its much older sibling? As far as my tastes and expectations for a game of this nature go   it surpasses them. Civilization V sees you guide a pre historic civilization at the very dawn of man through to the modern era using war, diplomacy, culture, tourism and various technologies as they become available for your civilization to use (these are selected from skills trees that offers a variety of gameplay styles early on in the game depending on how you level your civilization). You will have access to a wealth of information regarding your progress such as Diplomacy and Espionage through to Trade Routes and City Production Output (just to name a very few).

It can sometimes be a little overwhelming to the new comer as you try to grasp all the various little bits of information that enable a safe and successful passage through time for your chosen civilization. The game does include a tutorial in the beginning but it really is up to the player to decide what to do with the wealth of information he or she is presented with. Don't despair though   you do quickly get a hang of things and besides mistakes made are valuable lessons learn't for future civilizations. You can learn at a quicker rate by diving into a multiplayer session but expect to get your     handed to you since there are a great number of very good players out there but it's a really good way to learn. For the uninitiated, I suggest working from the easiest difficulty setting upwards to the more advanced in your attempts to become a better player and master the games intricacies.

Whilst it would be easy to praise everything from the production values to the graphics engine (which supports DirectX II) to the soundtrack   we have come along in leaps and bounds since 2001   what really makes the difference is the move to a hexagonal tile over the square tiles previously employed on the grid. This is a smart move and I am surprised to see it only show up in the games fifth iteration. It certainly goes well with the renewed combat system which no longer allows you to stack your armies on one single tile like you previously could. I also liked that they have now included the ability for a city to defend itself by simply firing onto an enemy within the correct tile radius. This means that your armies no longer have to babysit your cities and Capital and can now actually get out onto the front lines of the war effort should you find yourself at war with one or more other civilizations (although it would still be a wise decision to keep some of your stronger units around your Capital city).


The game also introduces City States, which are computer controlled non playable cities, that one can trade with or conquer depending on your proclivity. There is also an option to use diplomacy, however, in the base game this was a mighty gold coin sink since these City States at time of release where so fickle and demanding they could plunge you into bankruptcy before you knew what was actually happening and ruin a play through. Thankfully this problem has been addressed in the subsequent standalone expansion packs, Gods and King's and A Brave New World.

Speaking of the expansion packs they really are essential purchases ensuring that you are getting the maximum Civilization V experience. Not that the base game lacks anything at all that would make it feel incomplete   these expansions add new features such as Religion and Espionage as well as International Trade Routes and ability to form a World Congress in the modern age. I particularly like the inclusion of the World Congress, when formed, sees all leaders of the civilizations in game meeting to push through global proposals. The game becomes very much less predictable with this inclusion and much more exciting because there are now ten times more points of conflict that can arise. Want to place a heavy tax on militaristic civilizations crippling them from an upkeep perspective or see more of the arts flourish amongst all civilizations? There are a host of options that arise here that can drastically alter the end game. Tourism and Great Works by various artists are also introduced which opens up the game in exciting and wonderful new ways.


There is also a very vibrant modding community with Civilization V having benefited from the Steam workshop inclusion. There is more than enough content available through this medium and the games official expansion packs and DLC which should see Civilization V reign comfortably for quite some time into the foreseeable future. If you enjoy grand strategy games, I wouldn't hesitate advising you pick up Civilization V. If price is an issue   I have noted that the game repeatedly goes on a big dip sale when the Steam holiday sales roll around so I would strongly urge you to pick it up then if you haven't already.

Civilization V is a time sink of a game so don't be surprised to see yourself sitting in front of your computer all red and blurry eyed as you watch the sun peak in the early morning sky. Civilization V is still one of my absolute favorite games in my games library and something I constantly keep installed. Firaxes have done an amazing job with this title and I heartily recommend it to any gamer with not only a passing interest in history or strategy but for anyone looking for quality and fun in equal measures.
