While there are still some improvements needed, it is exactly what I wanted from a game.

The best comparison is like a more war based version of Catan.
I have enjoyed the game immensely because it brings together several aspects that I always desired from strategic games;

1. Centered around economy and constantly building up all of your cities (as opposed to simply trying to destroy your opponents, though you can also take over other people's things).
2. Despite being heavilly driven by economy, you can build armies and conquer other people through force as well.
3. Advantages of peace, with trading and sharing of technologies.
4. Choice in technologies (now all of them are fairly good, and eventually you can choose all, but sometimes you have to make a few sacrifices to get to the higher ones first :) )
5. Multiple Interesting Races (6 so far, 8 coming) each with different strategies.
6. A constantly changing environment (the game creates an entirely random setting each time you make a new game, which is lovely <3 ) and perfect for replaying and multi player gaming with friends.
7. Ruins, minor factions, and ocean travel for the explorer in you.
8. Turns instead of all at once (now while I can see why the alternative some people would like, I think it takes away from the strategic of it and would make things too much 'who can click the fastest' type of game, luckilly this isn't that.. you can spend an hour if you want in a non timed game turn, there isn't a constant rush.
9. Endless time, even though it does announce a winner at turn 200, you can keep on playing, keep getting different resources, keep building up massive cities, learning new technologies, and exploring the very far corners of the world if you haven't. (this is unlike wherein warcraft resources are limited, or in battles of middle earth where it all becomes the same).
10. Cities can be expanded to near limitless dimentions (atleast till they take up an entire region, which probably wouldn't happen unless you really tried)

This is my favorite strategic game of all time, and I look forward to whatever they do to expand it :) (( Come on Cultists and a water race.. we're waiting :3 )
