For the first 20 hours of gameplay, I thought I had found a new 4X game to add to my favorites along with Civ and AoW. Unfortunately that feeling did not last. Amplitude did a lot of things right but in the end failed to make the game engaging enough for "endless" replays. Gameplay features that made me come to this conclusion around the 40 hour mark are as follows:

1.	Winter is a game breaking borefest. If it appeared randomly after 30 to 50 turns and lasted between 5 to 10 turns, it would be an interesting feature… but the way it is implement (where winter occurs more and more often, lasts longer and longer and leads to endless winter by turn 200), it is simply a chore and the opposite of fun. The AI does nothing during winter, productivity comes to a screeching stop, and movement and offensive military action are severely hampered. This equates to a clickfest on the "next turn" button. Few skills and techs help with winter's onslaught, and even if Amplitude added some, it would affect replay. Good 4X games let you implement your winning strategies, they don't dictate which techs should be researched in order to compensate for devastating scripted events. This reminds me of Medieval Total War, where after building up your empire, you knew that everything would be laid to waste by the scripted Black Plague and the back to back Mongol and Timurid invasions. 

2.	City invasions are too easy. Considering that empire building is really engaging in Endless Legend, you end up holding off your armies and then unleashing them in the game's last "decent length" summer, before the endless winter comes, or otherwise you lose on points. Again, Amplitude is dictating gameplay with their lore. I don't care for lore in a 4X game, it affects replay.

3.	The Quests are ill conceived and do not provide enough reward. Almost all of them will ask for some resource only available in the next era, to visit a location in a region controlled by another faction that would require you to declare war just to get to it, or to develop one of your city with Level 2 districts and city centers that would take at least 50 to 100 turns to complete. Same thing applies for assimilating Minor Factions: their requests can either not be fulfilled anytime soon, force your hand into war (which you don't want to do considering the poor return you get from assimilating Minor Factions) or make you turn to the marketplace to purchase the requested items only to realize that it would be twice as cheap to just bribe them into submission.

Putting aside those issues, I love everything else about this game. AI, combat and diplomacy all need to be improved, but it is not game breaking for me. If they can make winter optional or configurable, perfect city invasions so it is better balanced and change the questing and Minor Factions assimilation features to make them more enjoyable and worthwhile, they will greatly improve the replayability factor. As it is now, I was fun playing through a game, but I doubt I will revisit Endless Legend often.
