Welcome to Endless Legend. Take a seat and listen, as I unravel to you one of the best 4X games of the past few years.

First of all, there are some things to bear in mind when considering this game, and for some people, these might be off putting at first, especially if approached in a mainstream or Civilization like manner. The first thing to consider about Endless Legend is that it encourages experimentation and kindly invites you to leave dogmas and balance at the front door before you enter its universe.

So, onwards we go.

If you've played Amplitude's former 4X Sci fi space game, you'll immediately feel familiar with some of the concepts here. Endless Legend is actually set in the same universe, but rather on a single planet, named Auriga. Gameplay itself and the UI is very similar to Civilization V and fans of this game will immediately feel at home. However, there are a few subtle differences.

Auriga's first impressions are breathtaking. The landscapes are beautiful to watch and behold, making the most of the fantasy theme which has been provided. Also, Auriga features 2 seasons. Games start at the beginning of Summer, and every once in a while, a short Winter will set in. However, this isn't just a cosmetic feature. Winters affect most aspects of gameplay, including military and economic aspects, and some quests can only be completed during a certain season. Winter itself is a pivotal mechanic to the storyline, as Winters will become longer and harsher as time goes by, and you must find a way to "fix" this or risk complete obliteration of Auriga.

Speaking of quests, they make a pretty big part of Endless Legend. While the main quest will eventually lead a civilization to victory, there are dozens of side quests to be found across your journies, varying from mundane tasks (such as kill X creature, provide Y resources) to more compex ones, such as forming an alliance or capturing a town. Most quests actually have follow ups and context, so they're not completely forgettable.

Auriga is also a very lively place. You will encounter roaming creatures and also native tribes. These tribes are akin to Civ5 city states and can be persuaded through various means to join an empire and provide unique bonuses or units. And speaking of tenants, you share the world with the other civilizations. Amplitude made full use of the fantasy setting and created a set of wonderful civilizations, each different and with their own personality, charm and mechanics. While in Civ, all civilizations were technically the same, bar some variety in buildings and units, in Endless Legend, each civilization is completely different. For example, the Roving Clans are trade oriented nomads, able to move around their cities. They're so trade oriented that they can't even declare wars, and must push through trade, diplomacy and alliances. The Necrophages, on the other hand, are on the opposite side of the spectrum, being an all evil warmongering insectoid race which consumes everything and is constantly at war, not being able to ally with anyone. No matter who you choose to play with, the level of detail and artwork will surely surprise you.

Progress is done via eras and a tech tree. While not as excentric and confusing as the Endless Space tech web, the tech tree of Endless Legend is also not as bland as the one in Civ5, for example. What Endless Legend wants you to do is to encourage experimentation. Forget about linear tech progression or "must have" technologies. You can go that path, of course, but you will not only be very slow in progression, but you will also feel that the tech tree is there just for the sake of being. Instead, it invites you to try a more daring approach. 

You dont' *have* to unlock everything, from hero recruitment, to all the resource extractors, to all armor and weapon upgrades. Doing so is the obvious but also the blandest way. I found out that experimenting with lesser mainstream approaches can lead to interesting results. For example, in a game, I skipped completely through a set of resource extractors in order to focus on more combat oriented techs (like weapons+armor) without having to linger too much in early eras. I ended up reaching the fourth era first and having OP military which then resulted in a fairly easy late game. Surprisingly, the other civs were pretty easy going on trading the resources I was lacking, so I didn't really feel handicapped by skipping those extractors.

Also, I've also won with just one hero by skipping most militaristic tech and piling up economic and trading techs. I was the laughing stock of the game when i came to military, but funny enough, I didn't have to deal with any wars, as the other Civs were appeased by my edge in trading and economic "gifts", allowing me to spearhead through the main questline and win the game.

This, of course, would never be possible without a proper diplomacy system. Endless Legend's diplomacy system, fortunately, is one of the best I've seen. Trading of resources and tech is done by using a special resource called "Influence". Alliances and conflicts are also brokered the same way, which means that players who focus on Influence tech and buildings can easily become rulers of the world. The AI is also very well done in this regard, with leaders having proper attitudes and reactions to diplomatic events.

Of course, when diplomacy fails, the swords do the talking. As all 4X games, Endless Legend features a combat system. As with the rest of things, its combat system is far from mainstream. Instead of using a simple die roll, each combat is resolved on a tactical battlefield, similar to ones in Heroes of Might and Magic games. However, there are very different mechanics.

While the battlefield itself is merely a "zoomed in" version of the actual terrain, units are not exactly in direct control of the player. Each battle goes through seveal "phases", and the player can only issue pseudo orders to units, in the way of "try to move here" or "try to attack that unit". However, during the resolve phase, units attempt to carry those orders but there is no guarantee that the action will succeed. This may happen due to the units being out of range or the path becoming blocked. While this can be frustrating for people who like total control of the battlefield, it is actually a more realistic approach to the battlefield, by making the player feel more of a general in command, rather than a God dictating each and every move of its underlings at any given point in time. The only problem arising is that sometimes, units' pathfinding might be awkward and inconsistent with the player's expectations. Fortunately, for such people, an automatic battle system is available, which is more than decent in resolving conflicts.

Overall, I would recommend this game to every 4X fan out there. However, I would like to stress again that this is not your average game which lets you comfortably settle into a comfort zone. Getting the best out of Endless Legend will mean having to avoid that comfort zone, experimenting a lot and thinking out of the box. Almost all aspects and challenges in the game can be resolved in more than one way and sometimes the optimal way to do it is not necessarily the most obvious one. This game rewards those people who dare go outside the comfort zone and that's what sets it apart from the rest. If you expect a game which emphasises balance, precise combat and a sandbox for you to expand your empire in, you will be disappointed.
