It's a 4X fantasy(?) game set on a world called Auriga. You play as one of the major factions on the planet   one of the species who has risen up and is sufficiently advanced enough to be a dominant force. Also scattered throughout the planet are minor factions. These are all kinds of other species who will try to raid your cities but can be stomped or made a part of your empire.

A lot of the different factions are based on tried and true fantasy creatures. The Wildwalkers are elfish (bearing a resemblance to the walking plant elves of Glorantha), the Broken Lords are a kind of undead/necromancer faction, and there's minor factions like the Delvers and Urces (dwarves and ogres, respectively). However their look and feel is often twisted a bit and really cool. Dwarves wear skull masks and have skulls braided into their beards, for instance. And each faction feels very different.

That's one of my big Things for sci fi or fantasy 4Xes these days. If you're going to have different species of creatures, I want them to feel different, play different, and have different goals. The developer totally nailed it here. While there's some core gameplay that's similar, the different factions spin off in different directions. The Broken Lords are powered by Dust, the game's magical currency and power source, and it is the only thing that lets their populations grow and the only thing that heals their armies. To begin you must be very cautious but once you get your dust engine going you become terrifying. The Necrophages are people eating insect creatures, and diplomatic options are forbidden to them because everyone else is food. Additionally, defeating enemy armies gives you bonus food. Yum.

If you've played the developer's other 4X, Endless Space, you'll recognize dust, and probably a lot of the other game's resources. There's a smart reason for that, and that's because I feel like the setting of this fantasy world is built on Clarke's law   "Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic." I won't dig into the setting stuff too much, but the game blurs fantasy and sci fi, and I'm pretty convinced it actually takes place in the same universe as Endless Space.

Other neat things:
  You can make minor factions a part of your empire, giving you a bonus and a special unit from that faction. The Hurnas aka Orcs in this game give you orc archers and give all your units throughout your empire a bonus to damage, while the Delvers give you an economic bonus and skull wearing axe warriors called dredges.
  Each faction has a storyline quest that either guides you to victory or a serious empire buff that generally seals your victory, and lets you learn more about the faction and their history and future. This is probably one of my favorite bits, and is the reason why I'm playing and replaying and replaying.
  A lot of people compliment the UI so it's worth mentioning. Managing your empire is pretty easy and doesn't require a lot of clicks. It's the first game where I've found worker management to NOT be a huge pain in the    . All the information you need is pretty easy to come by too.
  There's a season cycle! Summer has an abundance of resources, and units move farther. In winter your resources get significantly reduced and armies move at a crawl. It creates a really interesting cycle where you're growing and building in summer, and conserving and trying to keep things together in the winter.
  I feel like both Endless Legend and Endless Space make the choices to build and expand really significant rather than no brainers. A lot of the time playing conservatively is a really good move, and having your cities sitting there, doing nothing, is the best move you can possibly make. Similarly, settling a new territory or conquering a neighbor might have a ripple effect of consequences that messes up your whole empire. I appreciate that, and I think it's pretty rare in 4X games.

The game has been fun enough to motivate me to ramp up the difficulty and fiddle with all the different knobs and levers of game creation to try different things. I think I've finally nailed Normal difficulty with my current playthrough as the Necrophages, after my last playthrough as the Vaulters was a failure. However, that game taught me some lessons about worker management. It was also probably due to me selecting a Hard world at game creation which led to fewer resources and more aggressive minor factions. Halfway through the game minotaurs burned down my capital city.

It does have some flaws though:
  Game crashes. I've had a few of these. Luckily the game autosaves every turn, and you often even have a chance to save after the game crashes and a reload fixes it (rather than just shut down the game stays open and gives you an error message that you can copy and paste and send to the developer).
  AI has some problems. There's been a few times where I've fought some melee units, and had them just stand there and do nothing while my ranged units plugged them. At first I thought it was some kind of feature of the faction I was fighting as they were giant rock people, but I had it happen against a few other factions when they were defending with melee only units.
  This probably only bothers me but right clicking is how you exit out of screens. However, if I try to exit out of the city screen and there's garrisoned units it makes the garrisoned units go for a walk. It's the only instance of this, and I wish they'd get rid of it since ungarrisoning units usually means going to the city and select New Army. I'm sure this is supposed to be a convenient time saver but it's more of a pain in my     than anything else.

Overall, though, I'm hooked. I'm really amped for them to create some new factions, and maybe add some art assets for all the different armor you can customize your units with. I'm not sure if they're going to do the same thing with it they did with Endless Legend, but what they would do was plot out three different features and let the community vote on which one would be in the next patch. What a great idea!
