New to Amplitdue's games and looking for some Pros and Cons on buying Early Access? Well heres some for you.

*** Updated as of Beta v 0.5.18 S3 ***

Pros

 An incredible amount of visual polish for an Early access game, and its only going to get better. You can zoom in far out or insanely close. Up close the details are stunning. And zooming far out gives you a ancient looking map with all the details you need.

 It's a Completely unique game. Coming from someone who enjoys the Civ series thouroughly, this game feels totally different and adds yet another delicious 4X flavor to my palate. Some things that make it different: High Ground advantadge, Adaptively Progressive Tech trees, The Market, Minor faction integration, and much more.

 Unique factions: I've played all of the major factions in complete games. This much I can tell you: If you play two factions with the same strategy it will not end well for you. Their uniqueness adds allot of immersion to the game.

Cons: (Will be updated as game progresses)

 The GUI is set up in such a way that you can easily make a mis click with units and suffer consequences you never intended. There is a high chance this will be polished up before release.


 The economics of the game feel flat. The dissaproval systems are pretty linear and leave a little to be wanted, however there is more economic depth planned and even more will most likely be added before Early Access ends.

[This game contained many cons at EA release but these are since gone]

Endless Space problems not found in Endless Legend:

 Steamrolling combat. Endless Space suffured from this, however combat is deep and thought provoking in Endless Legend even in early access. Also, there is much less of a "Rock Paper Scissor" feel to the game

 Endless Space had a lack of Diversity. Endless Legend on the other hand is teeming with diversity.

 Immersion. From seeing heroes fight on screen, to a richly stylized GUI, to incredible artwork, Endless Legend pulls you into the game's universe and keeps you there.

Overall, this game is an incredible EA game, and a steal with the release sales. And to speak of bugs, beyond a minor one here and there, they are practically non existent.

So looking for Endless entertaiment? This is it.
