A Review of Rome 2.

So. Yesterday I finally decided, after crushing another army at shogun 2, to give Rome 2 a whirl.
I'll mostly compare it to Shogun 2, seeing as CA&SEGA tried to surpass it's success.
Now, I know about how hyped it was, and how much flak it's been getting since release, but I decided to give it the benefit of the doubt.

Gameplay wise, combat.
Good points:
All factions have different units, with slightly different statistics to boot, which makes for more varied combat situations.
Statistics are now broken down in even more sections that can be improved upon.
Units are thankfully still in 100+ range, so your 20 unit army is still large enough.
Hiding has been slightly improved upon shogun 2, and LoS hiding is detailed a bit better.
Garrisons are now meaningful enough that one unit of bowmen can no longer snipe down an entire city.

Bad points.
Morale. I don't know what they're thinking down there, but early units' morale is so ridiculously low that getting twenty casualties can send units into a shattered state.
Differences in unit strength. Your basic units are so weak when people start fielding their mainstays that, coupled with that horrendous morale issue, they hold for a literal ten seconds before routing.
Your land army can spontaneously and instantly turn into a fullstack navy on a whim, making real navies pretty much pointless.
Defensive battles are made even easier by making any and all defenders able to rout, and having 0 morale bonus for being the last line of defense, which makes sieges a cakewalk.


Diplomacy
Good points:
New requests: Non aggression pacts, defensive alliances, military alliances, yes! Give diplomacy a function besides extorting money and asking for trade agreements. 
The AI actively pursues diplomacy now, very rewarding.

Bad points:
The AI actively pursues diplomacy, like a toddler. Geography, war/peace status and relationships matter not to the AI, additionally they ask for the most ridiculous prices for mundane things at time, or ask senseless requests every single turn.
Diplomatic relations are confusing and often nonsensical, even though there are way more actions that affect relations now.

Gameplay wise AI

Good:
AI now partakes in many more activities than before, and combines their land and naval armies in assaults now.

Bad:
Pretty much everything.
AI in field battles goes in a near straight line for your units, tries to send cavalry to a flank and then forgets about it, and battles devolve into a slugfest until they're out of units.
AI on an offensive siege battles rushes your control points(REALLY NOW?) instantly, and that's it.
AI on defensive siege battles...Stand their ground, even if they have no missile units and you're standing there slinging projectiles on their poor militia until the last arrow has been spent.
AI sometimes inexplicably moves their army to who knows where when you're standing five feet from their capital, and leaves it wide open for a quick siege.
AI occasionally does seemingly senseless attacks with one or two units against a city or fullstack, and then obviously loses.


Other things of note:
You cannot, I repeat, CANNOT recruit any units anywhere, anywhen, except for straight into a general's army. So don't bother trying.
Generals are near pointless except for getting an easy elite unit.
Expect graphical glitches and FPS drops, even on super tier computers.
Although there are several different factions, you are still very limited in your choices, which is a disappointment personally.




Conclusion:
Is this the TW game to rule all TW games? No.
Is this game worth buying? If you're a TW type of game fan, pick it up for a campaign or two, though I recommend waiting for either fixes or it going on sale.
Is it worth buying when you're new to the genre? No. If you wish to experience all that TW has to offer, Shogun 2 or perhaps medieval TW are the ways to go.

Total score:
6.5/10
If you like the series, grab it if only for completionist's sake, if you are new to it or still in doubt, wait for fixes or it going on sale.

Rose
