While Rome 2's now imfamous launch was attrocious, in its current state, the game is one of the best of the Total War series, and a shining example of a RTS. 

1. Campaign: As always, Rome 2's campaign is a mix of turn based strategical management on the campaign map, and real time battles. For the most part, the AI does a good job managing their cities and armies. They don't make foolish mistakes, they defend their cities, and they attack any vulnerabilities left by the player. The UI is fine, but the lack of branching skill trees for generals can be annoying. The removal of family trees is another annoyance as you feel no attachment to your faction's characters. One place where Rome 2 shines, however, is its variety. There are dozens of faction to chose from, exact numbers based on DLC, all of which have interesting units, traits, and challenge levels. 

2. Battles: Once again, we see the return of CA's battle AI. While it is not totally imcopetent, it consistently makes moronic mistakes. It will engage your pikemen head on, charge cavalry into the front of heavy infantry, and often attack with no real tact. However, the battles are still fun. Troops are easy to control and the battle UI is slick and customizable. Sure, when a cav unit inexplicably gets stuck on one lonely spearman it can      you the hell off, but it never detracts from the overall expirience. 

3. Multiplayer: Due to the variety of factions, Rome 2's multiplayer shines. Each faction is fun to play as and offers different stregnths and weaknesses. The added bonus of phasing out the battle AI is just the icing on the cake. However, technical issues still at times hinder the multiplayer, as you will often expirience severe lag and will occasionally be dropped from the game. 

4. Graphics: As one of the best optimized PC games out there in its current state, Rome 2 has no issue delivering both stellar graphics (in battles and on the campaign map) and smooth framerates. 

5. DLC offerings: While the 'Wrath of Sparta' DLC fell short, and I still have yet to see the point of 'Blood and Gore,' Rome 2 still has some fine offerings for DLC. Some packs will add fun new factions, and others will offer new, full legnth historical camapign scenarios to be played out on customized maps. Without a doubt, 'Hannibal at the Gates' and Caesar in Gaul' stand out from the pack as superd additions to the game and engrosing windows into some of the most fascinating wars in antique history. 

Without a doubt, Rome 2 stands out as one of the most extensive and deep offerings in the RTS genre. It is a stellar game and in its current condition, and it is the best Total War game to date.
