What i say now is not just aimed at Total War but in the state of games and the industry in general, i just wanted to get it of my chest:

I am giving my age away but i come from that era where there was no such thing as DLCs and expansions. Game was complete and very very very stable and almost bug free. Now like the person above said, WE ARE THE TESTERS and we PAY THEM TO TEST THEIR game. I wish this CRAP can stop. But its the users fault because they (me included) starting to pay for all these DLC's and take the crap.

In my defence if i bought a DLC or expansion i expected whole new content like new races or new weapons or stuff but on major scale change so that you can really say this is a change and this DLC worth it.

These days we get DLC's with content i expected in my opinion to have been part of the game in the FIRST PLACE.

For example, Star Craft 2, now we have to buy the DLC's or so called expansions just so that we can play the 2nd race in game (Zerg) and the third expansion coming to play the 3rd race. In the past you got games where you could play all races in single player, each having their own story, cutscenes etc. BUT NO!!!! We have to now buy it as DLC and everyone just throw money at them and now its become the trend, the norm. This is BSHT. Unless people stop throwing money at all these developers and start demanding full games again, then this will never change.

At least CD Project Red tried by taking a step in the right direction, we got a huge game (The Witcher 3) and they giving us 16 Free DLC's for the game, not PAYING but FREE. This is stuff that should have been in game in first place and they are adding it and giving for free BUT.... we are still trapped in this huge DLC or Expansion (whatever you want to call this) nightware where we are paying for stuff that should have been in the game in the first place to make the game COMPLETE.

Never had this 10 20 years ago.

Its a pity how we let them do this to us and gaming just a money making scheme and they always thinking what else can we do to SQUEEZE more money out of the SUCKERS.

Total War sadly went the same route and they are doing it even more to us now, 4 DLC's with stuff that should have been in the game. I am a BIG Total War fan, no, no, no...let me say... I WAS a big fan. I am also fed up with all these DLC's and trying to milk us for everything we have and then get content that should have been in the game in the first place.

Its time WE put DOWN our FOOT and say NO MORE!!!!

If we do not start a REVOLUTION regarding this then it will get WORSE and WORSE. Its time we take the power back and say NO MORE!!! Its time we get FULL games again!!!

This is SERIOUS people (gamers), we allowed this and now we need to STOP this!!! Hurt them where it hurts the most. THEIR WALLETS, THEIR BANK BALANCE.

We need new developers who do this for the love of it and still make a living, but this DLC CRAP is getting redicioules.

IT MUST STOP NOW!!! and it can only be done by YOU!!!
