This may be a rather controversial review, but I must say that I am sick and tired of Rome 2. The game in principle should be good   an apparent forty percent increase in budget from previous total wars and a brilliant precedence led me to pre purchase the game, and at first I was pleased. However after about only ten hours I began to realise there were several problems that I was experiecing (I wont go into detail), but they included a dodgy public order system, that seemed to make it counter productive to get high tier buildings, an extremely useless politics part, Generals that came and went without any real family or attatchment, Im sure you can find a long list of its problems online.

This is not why I hate Rome 2. The campaign I enjoyed (despite the problems) and I liked the battles (despite the worst Ai i have ever seen in a total war). I hate Rome 2 because of the continued corner cutting and obvious fan based exploitation. The most obvious of this ROME 2 Emperor edition   which (and correct me if Im wrong) promised to contain all the content and DLCs so far and (again correct me if Im wrong) but all Rome 2 owners were promised a free upgrade   which technically means that they owe us all the DLCs, but nevermind that. 

I loved Rome 1 because they gave you so much content without paying too much extra. Emperor edition brings almost no content to the game (unlike rome 1 barbarian invasion), has no extra units, and even though I played my first campaign as Eygpt it gave me the pregame cinematic for the Rome faction (there is only currently one type of pregame cinematic in the game). Rome 2 augustus campaign is extremely half arsed, bringing no more units to the game (unlike barbarian invasion in rome 1 where there were tons of different units. Although Rome 2 was already money   grabbing (SEE THE £44 worth of Dlc!?!?!) This free lc of augustus campaign is just a rearanged map and factions of Rome 2 (currently) with even less effort than there was in the origional game.
