
Total War is a franchise near and dear to my heart. So when word came round about Rome II, I leapt onto the hype wagon and held on. Every preview I pored over, and my interest in the classical time period renewed in full. Preordered the game and pre loaded it as soon as I could.

Then the release happened. And my love met a grisly demise.

It should be common knowledge by now, if you've read any of the other reviews, what happened on launch day. Players with Godzilla grade monster rigs like Attila16 noticed troubles running the game on Day 1. Rome II was unplayable. It was horrendous.

I contend it is absolutely unforgiveable what Creative Assembly did here. We were promised even better graphics than the "pre alpha" models we saw the summer before; launch visuals were nowhere nearly close to that. I don't know how they took the solid engine from Shogun 2 and botched it beyond belief a game later. Within a month after release, DLC was announced. DLC!! And the game was still struggling with ruinous bugs and whatnot! And the faction packs? Yeah, those were in the game already; CA just turns them "on" for the player once you've paid for them. And after that? Boom: new campaign. Courtesy of another $15 at the time, of course.

I essentially stopped playing by the end of 2013. I write this review as a plea and a warning. A plea, because I do not want you to buy this game, like I naively did. Creative Assembly lied to us. The result of their "work" is this unfathomable drivel. I don't care how much better it's gotten over the months; it should've run this smoothly back in September 2013. It was utterly dishonest to release such a travesty as was done here. The warning, to never preorder a game again. I don't care how much you love a franchise; I've been burned too many times to trust any developer. Wait for some time after the release. Read/watch a review or four. Determine for yourself how much the game will be worth to you. Don't preorder for a better deal; wait and purchase a better game.

TL;DR: Please don't buy this game. It will only encourage developers and publishers like these to release half finished garbage and reap the positive feedback months later as they patch it after the damage is already done.
