IF YOU WANT PEACE, PREPARE FOR WAR!!!!!! 

I am fan of the TW series at heart. For my credentials as a critic, I currently have over 100 hours in game, have beaten a campaign, and im pretty good at it.. Rome 2 feels entirely dumbed down when compared to the previous title, Shogun 2.

The terrible campaign&battle AI, the lack of unit customization, the lack of general customization, banners, etc and so on.. I would have been more than happy to volunteer my time and test this game for free so that the game could be passable on release, but CA and SEGA didn't feel like quality took a priority to advertising. Lastly, the moderating on their online forums are terrible. They cherrypick what threads do or do not stay, they keep horrendous and troll praisers yet they delete and ban valid criticisms.

The sporadic moments of greatness, when you're storming enemy walls or have finally brokered a peace agreement, are swallowed by tedium. With patience, your inner imperialist is satisfied as you skillfully cultivate a sprawling empire. It's too bad you have to put up with so much to get there. but If you're a hardcore strategy fan specially TW it's definitely worth a look, and if you're new to the genre and have the patience to learn, it's not a bad place to start, Rome II is a testament to all that is great about PC gaming and should be a must buy for all its followers.

Maybe its not better than first one but definitely its worth to play.. ofcourse worth to play cuz its one of the TW series game.. many people said ROME wasn't built in a day so be patience and give another chance to CA to build it again with it new updates. at last i should say Total War: Rome 2 is pure enjoyment. The strengths of the first installments are still there, mostly in the form of the diversity between different factions and armies. The limited amount of armies, freedom in missions and handy execution of 'auto resolve' only add on to this.

It might not look as great as the images might have you suspect, but it's still an easy recommendation. so prepare yourself for a long and endless road cuz all roads lead to ROME.....


Worth to buy... 8/10
