JUST TO CLEAR THINGS UP

This review is for XCOM ENEMY UNKNOWN (INCLUDING ALL DLC) ONLY.

XCOM Enemy Unknown has an expansion pack called XCOM Enemy Within. I'm not going to include that in the review because I'm planning to write a separate review for it. This review will only be about the BASE GAME + ALL DLC.

Also, I have not played the original XCOM games (shame on me, I know) so I won't be making any comparisons to those.

TL;DR
For the people that don't like reading walls of texts.

WHAT IT IS:

A Tactical Turn Based Strategy Game where you're the Commander of an organization formed by the Council of Nations called the XCOM. You are tasked with defending the planet from an alien invasion by sending your squad around the world in order to fight the aliens.

GENERAL RECOMMENDATION:

YES. I highly recommend this game.

RECOMMENDED FOR:

    Those looking for a hardcore tactical turn based strategy game. Make no mistake about it: XCOM EU, even on lower difficulties, is HARD.
    Those looking for a game that features aliens.
    Those looking for a game that would test their patience. In a good way.
    Those looking for a game with a ton of replayability. It's a great time sink!


NOT RECOMMENDED FOR:

    Those looking for a casual experience. This game is anything but casual[i.imgur.com].
    Those who don't like strategy games in general.
    Those who don't have a lot of patience.
    Those who hate RNG.
    Those looking for an active multiplayer community. There's barely anyone on when looking for a multiplayer match nowadays. 


THE REST OF THE REVIEW
For the people that actually like reading walls of texts.

THAT'S XCOM, BABY!

Tutorial mission. Four of your soldiers were sent in to investigate the first alien activity of the game. The game teaches the player with the basics on how to play the game. So far, so good. That is...until the game starts introducing combat.

Your team gets ambushed by the aliens and your soldiers get picked off one by one. By the end of the mission, only one of your four soldiers is left alive.

The tutorial mission teaches the player a lot of basic things such as moving, flanking, and shooting. But more importantly, it teaches the player that the game is not going to show any mercy even during a tutorial mission. That it's going to be brutal. That losing some soldiers in battle is required to win the war. And this sets the tone for the entire game.

XCOM is brutal, but it is also fair. It's one of those games that is easy to get into but hard to master. And it's also one of those games that punishes the player even for the smallest of mistakes. The game can get very tense and gives the player a great sense of urgency. Thus, making each victory feel very rewarding.

It's this difficulty that is actually one of the game's main selling points. And it fits perfectly for this type of game because after all, alien invasions are not something that humanity can easily prepare for.

LOOKS GOOD EVEN ON LOW

I can't talk much about the graphics because I play on a crappy laptop and I'm not really the type of person who plays games for the graphics. But all I can say is that the graphics look great even when putting all the settings to "Low". It also runs decently on low end laptops (like the one that I'm using).

YOU'LL KEEP COMING BACK FOR MORE

This game has a ton of replayability. Every playthrough could turn out to be different. There are four difficulties to choose from: Easy, Normal, Classic, and Impossible. There's a "Second Wave" option, which allows the player to start a game with different modifiers. And if that's not hard enough, you can try Ironman mode where the game automatically saves every move you make and you can't load any previous saves aside from the latest one.

You can also customize a couple of things in game such as the name of your soldiers, what their nationality is, how their armor would look like, among other things.

Even though a single playthrough can last for over 20 hours (on lower difficulties), there's a ton of reason to keep playing again and again.

GREAT SOUND BUT GETS REPETITIVE OVER TIME

The music in the game is good especially during combat or when you're about to send your squad on a mission. It fits well into the setting of the game. Sadly, it does tend to be very repetitive especially after playing the game for hundreds of hours. This is understandable because music wasn't really a big focus of the game. It can also be easily remedied by just playing your own music in the background.

BUGS

There are a couple of bugs in the game. Most of which are just bugs that affect the game visually. But there are bugs that can actually turn the tide of a battle. During my entire playthrough of the game, the bugs didn't bother me that much. And I guess I'm just lucky to not have encountered any game breaking bugs during my Ironman playthrough.

CAMERA ISSUES

The camera and manual targeting system are very wonky. This is especially true when trying to throw a grenade or blasting an enemy with a rocket. Sometimes, I end up throwing a grenade at my own soldier by accident thanks to the wonkiness of both the camera and manual targeting system combined.

RANDOMNESS

RNG. Random Number Generation. Some people love it, some people hate it. In XCOM EU, RNG determines how successful you are in hitting an enemy. A 99% chance to hit still has that 1% chance to miss and trust me, in XCOM EU, it CAN miss.

I can understand how frustrating it can be but on the upside, it does add more tension into the game knowing that as long as your chance to hit is not 100% you're most likely going to miss.

CONCLUSION

XCOM Enemy Unknown is a must buy video game especially if you're into hard strategy games. Great gameplay and replayability combined will ensure that you'll keep coming back for more. It is in no way a perfect game, but it is still amazing nonetheless. It may not appeal to everyone, but if you're like me and this is your cup of tea, you'll love it.

This is also the base game needed to play XCOM Enemy Within which makes an already great XCOM Enemy Unknown even better. But that is another review for another time.

REVIEWER'S CREDIBILITY

This is only my second review ever on Steam but I feel like I've played enough of the game[i.imgur.com] to be able to write this review.
