Intense. Satisfying. Frusterating. Rewarding. This is XCOM: Enemy Unknown.

And you'll love it.


Seriously though, developer Firaxis did an excellent job wih this game. Coming out of Civ V, this was a nice change of pace from waiting for your opponents to do something interesting (Civ V), to spliting your squad into two groups near the end of a mission, only to encounter an enemy that forces you to take a step back and regroup. One soldier may die, one may miss A LOT, and one may got shot in the face while running away. But you know what? That's the charm of this game. It requires that you change up your tactics on the spot, and use each solider's strength's to the enemy's weakness. Some enemies may be able to throw grenades, some may jump around the map, and some may be able to infect your guys into zombies (No, seriously).

The maps themselves are all excellently hand crafted, even if they pop up again from time to time. You'll also research new techs for your engineers to build, gaining new equipment, armour, and weapons. Sometimes a UFO will pop up, requiring you to scramble a jet to take it down. Other times you'll be required to choose which country to assist, raising the panic level of another. What happens if the panic level gets too high? Well, the country will revoke its support. Lose too many? You fail the game.

Mission variety is also a thing in this game. You'll sometimes have to investigate alien abductions, clear out UFO crash sites, and repel terror attacks. My personal favourite is the UFO missions, but the others are just as fun. As for this games presentation, it's done wonderfully. The graphics may not be HOLY BALLS AMAZING, but they set a tone and art style that gives the game the atmosphere that hummanity is getting hammered down. The music ranges from cinematic fight music with a sci fi flavour, all the way to creepy atmospheric trakcs. The story itself is very basic: The aliens are invading, and XCOM is formed to fight them off. The cutscenes definitely add a cinematic quality to this game that is masterfully done.

Also, don't expect this game to be for the light hearted. You WILL fail. Your soldiers WILL die. Countries WILL reach critical panic levels. But prevail through it, and you'll find your success.

If I had to rate this game, I'd give it a 9.5/10. I forgot to mention that intercepting UFO's is extremly barebones, but either than that every other problem is extremly insignificant and shouldn't bring the game down at all. I should also mention that this game makes my laptop overheat, but that's more my fault than anything else.
