XCOM: Enemy Unknown is a re imagining of the classic XCOM: UFO Defense and as such has a similar setting. Aliens come out of nowhere and attack earth. The multinational organization XCOM has to battle the aliens, reverse engineer their technology to create equipment that is on par with that of the invaders and eventually defeat them. As the XCOM commander the player decides about the building of base facilities, instructs the scientists and engineers, is in charge of the deployment of soldiers and commands them in battle.

XCOM: Enemy Unknown naturally takes much inspiration from the older XCOM games but also changes quite a bit. Some of those changes are actually good. Some are rather bad and some are just horrible.

In this game you have one base and cannot construct additional ones like in the previous entries in the series. Also the squads have been downsized to four people at the beginning and six with upgrades. I actually like that because it counteracts the grindy nature of the game a little bit. Building one base to completion takes quite a lot of time anyway. Also while playing the original games I always took machines with me because they would take four squad slots thus reducing the number of soldiers I had to command. Spending the whole first turn with just moving a dozen people out of the landing craft was tedious. Also there are character classes now. Every class gets to choose from different abilities to learn as they level up. This adds depth to your squad selection, especially since squads are smaller now. The game also mixes up the grindyness with some missions that have special objectives not seen in previous entries. The developers also chose to have some non interchangeable talking characters at your base. That actually adds a lot of personality to the game and I really like it. In my opinion XCOM: Enemy Unknown gets those changes right. However, there are changes that are more problematic.

The previous XCOM games use an action point system. Moving, shooting, ducking, turning, switching out equipment all takes away from your soldier's action points. XCOM: Enemy Unknown however drops the action points. You just have two actions per turn. For example moving and then moving some more. Or moving and then shooting. This system would not be so bad if it was not flawed. Shooting ends the soldier's turn. Reloading also does. Because of that there is not benefit to standing and shooting as opposed to moving and shooting. Also, reloading and shooting in the same turn is not possible. Reaction shots to enemy movement in the earlier games where possible whenever the soldier ended his turn with enough unused action points. In this game however, you need to activate the ability "Overwatch" to have the chance of a reaction shot. Using this ability also ends your soldier's turn. Also whenever moving you have to decide beforehand where to move. You cannot move step by step to check if you got a line of sight to the enemy. If you have no line of sight at the end of your movement you cannot shoot. That is especially frustrating because unlike in the prequels it can be very hard to judge if you will have line of sight after moving to a certain position.

Cover in this game does not act as physical barrier anymore, it's just a modifier on the attacker's hit roll. Yes, it gives a certain protection from enemy fire but everybody can be hit at all times given there is a line of sight to his cover. This doesn't work well with the games' rigged RNG rolls. Sometimes enemies will just one hit your soldiers who are standing behind heavy cover from a great distance while your soldiers have problems hitting enemies that are five meters away from them in the open. In the original games you could stand so close to enemies that missing was virtually impossible because an actual projectile was going out on a 2D plane. Also, there is no collision detection for shots anymore. In the previous XCOM entries you had to be careful with your positioning because friendly fire could be a serious threat. Now you can only hit the target that you were aiming at in the first place. It is not possible to accidently hit a teammate or another enemy instead.

XCOM: Enemy Unknown handles armor in a bad way. Armor does not reduce damage taken. It just adds more hit points. In the classic games energy armor would make a soldier nearly invincible against small weapons. In this game however a soldier in the heaviest armor can be worn down by sticks and stones given there are enough sticks and stones thrown at him.

I think it is great that there are character classes now. The problem is that soldiers start without a character class. They get assigned one after their first promotion. This assigment is random though. That means if you need more soldiers of a certain class you have to constantly take rookies with you and hope that they survive, get their promotion and turn out to be the class that you have wanted in the first place.

Some of the upgrades have the only point of battling bad design choices. You can for example upgrade your weapon technology to slowly reload automatically over time. Also, with the gene mods you can use in the expansion you can enhance your soldiers with hit point regeneration per turn and with an ability that makes them untargetable in cover given that the enemy did not see them at the beginning of your turn before moving into cover. You can also buy an upgrade to have your rookies already start with a character class. However it is still random. Those are sure nice upgrades but none of them would be necessary if reloading, cover, armor and classes would not have been handled that badly.

Enemy movement: This is the aspect of the game the does not want me to recommend it. The game has many flaws but this one is just infuriating. Every time you spot a group of enemies they get a free turn of movement to get into cover, flank you or run towards you. This happens during your turn   in a turn based strategy game. Also, most of the enemies appear in groups now and you always trigger the whole group of them. It often happens that you move all your soldiers without seeing any enemy and then you discover an alien squad with your last soldier, letting them get into optimal positions to fire at you in their upcoming turn. This doesn't work well together with enemy types that can one hit kill rookies, converting them into bullet sponge zombies afterwards. After you spot them they use their reaction movement to get closer and immediately close in for the kill in their turn.
It happens really rarely that enemies move before you discover them. In most cases they are standing in place waiting to be triggered like land mines. Because of that melee combat is completely unviable now. In the classic games you could sneak up on enemies if they were not looking in your direction. Now they always now that you are there and start moving at once. Also, sometimes enemies will just drop from the sky   sometimes right next to you   making all planning and tactics kind of useless. The only other game in which I have seen such levels of lazyness in enemy placement and AI was Dragon Age 2.

I still have my fair share of fun with the game and maybe you will too. But as it is I cannot recommend it since it is full of really weird design choices some of which are so blatantly bad I cannot even imagine what the developers were thinking. Sometimes it is really infuriating. The most frustrating thing is that the developers got so much right just to screw up royally in other departments.

If there would be a re release with a proper action point system and decent enemy movement and placement XCOM: Enemy Unknown could easily become one of my favourite games of all time despite its other flaws. As it is now it sadly cannot.
