I really don't know what to write about XCOM: Enemy Unknown. One one hand it is a great tactical strategy game with some cool features, on the other hand it seems to be either unintentionally broken or designed so horribly that it basically makes the turn based gameplay pointless.

Visually XCOM is great, mostly. The designs, weapons, armors, vehicles and bases in addition to most of the aliens are really nice looking and have variety to them. The human characters, mainly the male soldiers are rather unnerving in appearance. The female soldiers are mostly ok and the story characters work well. The music sets the mood and there are some good standout pieces (especially the "Ready for battle" song).

Now, I know that the franchise is a meat grinder of sorts, fighting tooth and nail to win one battle at a time with the ever looming threat of making that one bad call and getting a TPK even on a regular search and destroy mission. And I am fine with that.

1. Not being able to choose the class of your soldiers when they start ranking up. You would think this is an OK feature and perhaps if it worked well enough it would be. Now it is completely random (or at least I haven't found out how to affect it through my own actions): I started a new game, played the first few missions and leveled up my squad only to find out that 2 of them became snipers, one went to become a heavy and another an assault class. Ok, so early in the game that is not a big problem but when I bought an additional squad member position to my team and picked the next rookie to go on a mission things went from "silly team composition" to "how does this even work": I now had 3 snipers in my team in addition to the heavy and assault. A basic abduction mission is easy to handle even with an uneven team but when I have to race against time to save civilians of disarm a bomb and three of my squad members can't move and shoot/overwatch at a low level is a big problem. Sure, I could have picked other rookies and started to level them up but once you play few missions and every perk you gain when leveling up is of great importance, you rather choose the ones you have as high level as possible to ensure that a TPK doesn't happen. Especially since the panic levels increase fast in the first hours of the game.

2. Me see evil; me no shoot evil. I have come to learn that unless you have a 100% chance to hit a target, you will more than likely miss. It doesn't matter if the percentage is at 90; out of 10 shots with 90% probability to hit the target, your soldiers will hit maybe, just maybe, half of them. Even if the target is standing in an adjacent square. And what is absolutely baffling to me is that your soldier can stand only one square away from the enemy unit that is standing in the open and your soldier's hit percentage is only 65.

I witnessed a case where 4 of my soldiers were surrounding a Muton (the big green hulk) that was hiding behind a one square sized cover (an alien artefact that needed to be salvaged so no rocket launchers). The soldiers were positioned so that only one of them wasn't flanking the enemy unit aka the cover was between them. The other three soldiers were one square away from it, flanking from the sides and behind with no cover )this would mean a red shield if it was a player controlled soldier). It took all four of them to bring down the Muton that had already lost half of its HP. Two of my soldiers, the one not flanking and one of the flanking soldiers missed and the rest to managed to hit and kill the Muton. Now, if this was to happen the other way around, 4 enemy units surrounding one of the soldiers, the soldier would have been killed instantly, no misses. It is as if the aliens have a naturally better chance at every shot they take, no matter how good my soldiers' gear is.

Also, when an alien like a sectoid is half the map away from my soldier (that would have maybe 10 15% chance to hit the sectoid if it was the soldier's turn) and the sectoid not only hits my soldier who is behind a cover and deals critical damage, I call BS. It seems that when the distance grows, the likelyhood for my soldiers to hit the target diminishes, fairly quickly I might add (which in itself is logical). However, it seems that no matter how far the enemies are, they are more than likely to hit you, no matter the elevation difference. Also the "higher elevation boost" for soldiers, especially snipers is ridiculous. I have only once seen it give any advantage and that was when the sniper was only few squares away from the enemy unit that wasn't behind cover and even then with the S.C.O.P.E. the hit probability didn't rise to more than 80%.

3. Bullet trajectory. A minor but most irritating and definitely a design flaw in the game is the way bullets, plasma, lasers and whatnot fly when someone is shot. If the game calculates the hit/miss before the actual animation is shown, it would be nice to not see bullets or other death rays to hit a target and then see "Missed" in the notification. I mean, how hard is it to program the animations to "miss" when the statistics state that the shot missed the target? It is really confusing to see my soldier take hit from a volley of plasma and then get "Missed" when I was already mentally prepared to see the soldier die. It is just bad design.

4. Statistical cover and visual cover. Sometimes it seems that no matter how well in cover you are, you get hit. I don't fully know how the cover works, perhaps full cover is nothing more than "a crit denier": you take hit but don't get hit with a crit, similar to "hunker down". Sometimes the bullets and whatnot seem to hit the environment, sometimes they travel straight through it and hit the target. It is rather difficult to place a sniper in a good position to overwatch when you can't tell for certain if a wall is just there for level design purpose or if it is actually a wall/cover. One time my sniper was in a place I never would have expected for him to be able to shoot anybody but surely enough he just calmly stood up and shot an enemy unit through a couple square thick spaceship wall.

5. No free aim. This might seem a pointless nitpick but I think that removing the possibility to shoot other than just visible aliens is a silly thing. The game has destructible environments, the rocket launchers and grenades have free aim and there are features in the maps that can become environmental hazards for both the XCOM and the aliens.

6. Overwatch works some of the time. The idea of overwatch is important if one wants to survive the missions and more than once it has saved my squad. However, I find it ridiculous that every soldier shoots at the same time if a target comes into their field of view. Once I had 3 soldiers, 2 assaults and a sniper take a shot at a single target: the assault with a plasma rifle slaughtered the target, the second assault and sniper therefore shot at nothing remarking "I've missed the target" which is funny since the target was already rendered into atoms. Oh, and most times, if the target isn't less than 5 squares from the soldiers, they are more than likely to miss, even if the target is in the open.

7. Enemy movement on my turn. How this feature got through the QA is beyond me. How can you make a turn based strategy game when the enemy units always get a freebie when you spot them? Wouldn't it be more logical that they move around the map even when you have not yet spotted them instead of creeping in one spot and then scattering around like cockroaches when you finally spot them? I find it immensely bad design that they can move to a cover and then take a full turn after the player has completed their turn. Many more times than I want to remember, I have spent my actions covering my units while assuming the enemy coming from the darkness only to spot them with my last soldier and see them reposition themselves flanking me and then have a turn to TPK my team.
