Outlast is a first person horror game which was released in mid 2013 on the PC while also being released afterwards on consoles. It is own by approximately a million users on Steam too. The game is also built on the unreal engine. 

The game is based around a story rich campaign told in first person narrative style set in a psychiatric hospital which has been overrun by murderous paitents. Your character, Miles Upshur, has no means of combat, other than shoving enemies out of your way. You are forced to use the technique which most would do when faced with the types of enemies in this game, running for your life and hiding like a little girl under a bed. You also carry a notebook and a camcorder, which is used to document the events inside the hospital. The camera is used as your mechanism of seeing in the dark, but obviously in good horror genre style it has a limited supply of power - so you also have to explore the hospital for batteries to keep it turned on. 

Outlast is built on the Unreal engine; so the graphics are top notch; they really capture the scene and will have you cringing in horror at some of the sights you will see. The lighting is absolutely perfect, along with the rain effects when outside. 

You can go as deep as you want with the story; you can either follow the plot by just wandering around the halls and purely just going off the scripted events that happen or you can delve very deeply into the story by finding all kinds of documents scattered around in drawers and cupboards. 

This is easily the scariest game I have ever played. On top of the stunning visuals that are almost life like, the game has the best audio you will ever find in a horror game; footsteps, background screaming, musical tempo changes. They are all amazing and you won't find a game which captures it more perfectly than Outlast. 

Outlast is hard; the first "level" chucks you straight in at the deep end as you have to scramble around a beefed up guy to turn the power generator on; this is the first of many challenges you will face in the game. You have to really stick at it at times to try work the best method of progressing around some events. You will be very lucky to complete the game without running into any problems. 

The whole game took me seven hours to complete; this was my first playthrough and there sadly isn't any other reason other than collecting all of the documents to play through it again. The story is linear and you will end up with the same ending each time. 

Regardless of the lack of replay ability, Outlast is easily one of the best games to come out in recent years and horror fans will absolutely love it. If you aren't into jump scares this may not be for you, as there are plenty and you will probably find yourself alt F4ing out many times. 

If you found this review helpful, please consider giving it a thumbs up. You can also find more reviews over at http://www.completingthebackloggroup.com/

Please also check out Completing the Backlog's Curator page here - follow for regular updates on reviews for other games!