I do not scare easily, for my heart is filled with darkness and I probably have no soul. I marathon horror films in the middle of the night, solo. I went to Great America's Halloween Haunt and annoyed the employees by trying to scare them instead. I also jumped off a building one time. I'm kind of like Will Smith in that crappy After Earth movie, but without the scientology and a bad actor known as Jaden Smith.

This game, however, changed things for me. It put fear back into my heart. Its tendrils, so tenderly burrowed its way into my amygdala, from the very bottom of my bunghole.

I started out in a car. When I got out, there was a building. I realized I was very tall. This pleased me, because in reality, I am not that tall. I got through a gate door and fiddled around with the controls to learn the game. Walking to the building, I discovered the door was locked, so I had to find another path. To the left, there was a small opening that I had to crawl through like a dog. Dog is the preferred meat source of my people. Getting through that hole, I saw an open window a few stories up. I had to climb like Assassin's Creed. 

Once I got inside, the lights turned off. I got scared and jumped back out the window. Then I decided to kill myself because I did not want to go any further, so I jumped over the edge. I plummeted to my death, only to be ressurected by the stupid game. 

I knew I had to continue, so I walked around. I went into another room across a hallway. The TV turns on, but that doesn't scare me. I keep moving. I see vending machines and a vent. I don't want to go into the vent, but I guess I have to. Going through the vent, I see some guy running around. I'm scared so I stay there for a while. 

After a while, I decide to jump down. There is a door, I open it. Something jumps out at me. I scream at the top of my lungs. I hide back in the vent for a while. I finally am brave enough to leave the vent and continue through the dark room filled with corpses. I come across a guy dying. He tells me random things. I don't really care. I'm scared.

I find batteries in a bathroom. There is a hand sticking out of the toilet. I wonder if It will wipe me.

I leave the bathroom and continue on. There is no way to go except for this tiny passageway I have to squeeze through. I decide to squeeze through. Out of nowhere, some giant fat dude with no skin grabs me and says something. I scream at the top of my lungs as he throws me through the tinted window. I continue screaming for a while at the top of my lungs. I see some guy going through my things. 

I can't do this anymore. This game is too scary. Save and Exit.