Absolutely terrifying and intense from start to finish. You will feel nothing but fear and horror throughout the entire game, it's simply amazing. 

So all my life I've been watching horror movies, read scary novels and what not. Figured Outlast wouldn't be that much of a difference, but it turns out I was wrong. Outlast throws you into the depths of hell by the name of Mount Massive Asylum and really pushes you to the limit. As soon as you pick up the camera and sneak into the building you can feel the intensity rising. You're about to have an experience of a lifetime, in between running for your life, hiding under beds or just screaming like a little girl as you try to find a way out. 

The story could have been a bit more polished. At times it was quite confusing what was really going on, could it be I had missed a file somewhere which could explain what just happened? But overall I found it more and more intriguing the deeper I went. The more files I picked up, the more characters I met. Every meeting with a new main character really messes with your mind. They're all twisted in their own little ways, ranging from wanting to cut you to pieces to stitch you back up, eating your flesh or just brutally ripping you apart for their own amusement. 

I greatly enjoyed the immersive atmosphere of the game. The distant lights you hoped to be safe, the creeping shadows you tried to hide in. It really felt like you were there, surviving for your own life whilst trying to figure out what really happened in the depths of the asylum. 

The Whistleblower DLC
Is definitely a great addition to the game, and it delivers horror in a different way. You're taking the role of Waylon Park, a software engineer who works for Murkoff who is also responsible for the e-mail which brought the reporter, Miles Upshur, to the asylum. Having a completely new perspective on what's going on it still delivered the same, if not more horror on top of an already extremely scary game.

Overall the game gave me an amazing experience I'd recommend to anyone who would like a good scare and/or a great story to throw yourself into. However, keep in mind that it does contain quite vulgar language, gore and a lot of nudity.