Hello and welcome to Choose Your Own Outlast Review! I'm your very own Centipede bringing you the first installment of Chose Your Own Review!

Here's what you do: just ignore that Recommended yes/no part; instead simply pick the option that leads to your personalized recommendation of Outlast and then just highlight the text below with your cursor! 

Easy, right?! Nothing to it! Bob's your uncle! Here we go!





I am a horror fan, blood and guts don't scare me. I'm looking for the next big thrill and ain't no price or jump-scare stopping me! 
Ur so cute omg! Play Outlast during mid-day lunch break, in a well-lit room surrounded by your noisy bros. Keep a casual attitude and act like you're showing off the game to your bros. Make Benny Hill noises during chase scenes to lighten the mood. 

I'm a pessimistic person, a bit depressive and with a bleak outlook on things. I search the darker side of life but I'm really more into the subtle psychological narratives, dark and twisted mind states. Not so keen on jump scares.
You prolly want Amnesia - it's on your recommended list, of course. Outlast's story is a bit silly but the moment-to-moment gameplay will be tense, like a primal game of hide and seek. It will make you feel more alive and appreciative of life's sanity-filled moments. Get it on sale.

I rather consider myself a regular, socially-adjusted person; would like to get more into horror as this seems to be a catchy genre and looks like fun.
You're in luck! Buy Outlast and play it with your dates. Outlast is excellent for a romantic night-in. The saying should go 'Dinner and an Outlast chase' as far as I'm concerned; get that adrenaline pumping and you're in for some disturbing loving.

I'm a relatively sheltered person and I'm curious about the horror scene; would be cute to get in touch with my darker side.
You're a cutie-pie. Get Outlast right now, play it home alone at night, lights out, headphones on, it will be the start of something wonderful. Meet me for brunch after you finish it so we can share thoughts. 

I'm like - SO into horror! I just looove Nightmare on Elm Street and that American Psycho thing was oh-my-god I could just see myself in it!
Oh boy you're gonna like this. Outlast is a very cheap investment for the success of your next Let's Play! series. Play it with your friends while downing Kahluas and blasting reggae on your surround system. Scream like a little girl when you see something moving in the dark so that your neighbours get some of that entertainment in their lives too!

I am a connoiseur of the finest disturbing horror. Cannibal Holocaust, Men Behind the Sun and Saladfingers all bore me now, played all the Amnesia and Penumbra games back to back - still left me wanting more! 
You are Chuck Norris. Outlast is actually kind of like your childhood so you will be quite bored. Give it a miss, Chuck.

Gore! Violence! Blood for the Blood God!
U're drunk. Play Outlast while getting drunk on a sunny Saturday morning. Wheee! Or instead go play GTAV or Assassin's Creed I DON'T KNOW. 

I want to be the King and Queen of Cheese! Buy some Cheese Cleese?
You are the existentialist philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre. You are a mere mortal person wading through a meaningless, vapid, hostile existence. Play Outlast while watching Monty Python and simultaneously slapping yourself very roughly. Delight in feeling something, anything, even if it's mere discomfort. 

I am a refined individual and enjoy the finer things in life; Cabernet Sauvignon, chess, Arcangello Corelli and 120 Days of Sodom. I like it when the red liquid comes out of people...
Save your time old chap, don't buy Outlast; life is your true playground, you can play in real life instead! With enough money and enough aristocratic flair, opportunities await you, old sport!

I unironically enjoyed The Human Centipede and am looking forward for some more fun weirdness!
You are the author of this review and you need to go to bed!