It's been bandaged somewhat since launch, but battles are still often over too quickly to deploy even simple tactics. Often the most effective technique is to just gather all your units together into a man-blob and throw it at the enemy. Even the most well-drilled and disciplined unit will break formation upon entering combat, forming an amorphous shape surrounded by confused diaspora who seem to have lost their grasp of where the unit is supposed to be.

Naval battles are farcical; the ships are far too clumsy to perform even the simplest tasks with any level of consistency, and they never seem to do what you tell them to. Siege equipment is often similarly useless - men gather in heaps stranded on top of ladders, unable to get themselves over the wall, and palm trees prove to be the best defence for a city as rams and towers find any vegetation utterly impassable, often getting stuck as they pass by.

The family tree system is gone, replaced by an obtuse, but ultimately inconsequential politics mechanic which serves primarily as a money-sink to dispose of unwanted funds, which you will inevitably possess due to the arbitrary limits placed on the number of units you can field.

Generals and other ancillaries no longer have traits, which means they are all virtually identical. While the upgrade paths do make some effort to force you into specializing agents (spies, etc) into certain ability sets, there is only a very limited selection of improvements you will make to the generals, as the majority of bonus effects they can receive are quite niched, outclassed by a small range of far superior all-purpose skills. Not that the trait system is of any great importance however, since the absurd choice of time scale at 1-turn-per-year means that all characters will die before ever achieving a high rank.

These changes from previous titles coupled with a 'streamlined' economic system which gives the player rather little capacity for input lead to shallow, underwhelming campaign map play. It will not seem quite so shallow at first however, because the byzantine UI certainly tries its best to have you go through as many menus as possible to perform a particular action. The developers opting to keep the lovely campaign map in view as much as possible means only very limited information is displayed in a small panel at the bottom of the screen. Not very helpful if you're trying to track down something specific.

The only saving grace of the game is that mods can resolve many, though not all of, the aforementioned issues.

I love the Total War franchise, but Rome 2 deals a great amount of harm to the reputation of CA, and I was wrong to place my trust in them by buying it at launch. Caveat emptor.