Oh boy, guys, this game is the bee's knees. This game is really good, insofar as the DLC policy makes you want to gouge your eyes out with a rusty flensing knife. Don't you love it when you go into the classical era and you can't play as the classical Greeks because you have to pay seven fiddy for the culture pack? Oh boy, check out the all new and amazing unit packeroni for the Mouthbreathii out in the middle of nowhere, only ten thousand of your hard earned doubloons. You have to pay for blood. Blood. In a war game. I get that the Germanians never gave up their backwards censorship culture, but just do what valve did and replace the blood with gears or something. How would you feel if nintendo took out the ability to play as luigi in mario kart? You can still race against him, just if you want to play as him you have to buy the "We-a takin' your-a money" culture pack.

When you pay 60 bucks for a game, you expect to get the full game, am I right? I'm wrong, they did the same thing in attila and most people are just accepting that they are being taken advantage of. No one knows what is going on anymore, no one buys a game and expects anything more than a piecemeal half-baked omelet that requires the "salt and pepper" DLC for 10 million dollars. Hey guys, when was the last time you bought a game and you got the whole game, no strings attached? Almost a decade ago for me, unless you count indies. We dont need a socratic dialogue to see that the AAA sphere is an abhorrence to anything good and pure in this world. 

I'll now list the pros and cons of this game:

+ Nice grafix
+ Nice gameplay
- AI is total garbage, hey CA, maybe A* was ok in the days of yore but there should not be an AI this terrible in a modern game. Make some better algorithms! Pikmin 1 on the gamecube has a much, much better "army style" AI and it was released in 2001! ! ! 
- Hey, if you want to see the rest of this review you have to give me 20 billion dollars as part of the "GOD I JUST WANT TO END MY MISERABLE LIFE" review pack DLC.

All in all I'd like to bestow upon this game a rating of "To see this rating, buy the "End Reviews" Review pack DLC for only 300 trillion dollars", and if you think that joke is getting stale, well, for you it's a joke, for me and the people who own this game its a harsh, painful reality they have to deal with everyday.

"Oh boy, scary face guy, they dun diddly did it again with Warhammer" Thanks for telling me that, me. Now I'll just bestow upon you fellows my incomprehensible rage. Chaos is DLC, my friends. Chaos. For those not in the know, putting Chaos as DLC is like putting Carthage as DLC. Basically, we are now getting the shafterino againerino. Hey, this probably won't be the end of it. Make sure to buy the game 2 years after its out to get the whole actual entire game that they should have released from the beginning at a much, much cheaper price. Why on earth is SEGA doing this? Why? Why? ? ? ? ? ? ? What did we do to deserve this? I want to give you my money, but y'all are acting so incomprehensibly asinine that I don't think I can, at least not without having parts of the game locked out from me. ITS "DOWNLOADABLE" CONTENT, NOT "HEY WE TOOK IT OUT OF THE GAME LADS PLAY4ONLY 4000 QUADRILLION $" CONTENT.

No, we're not done, lads. I want to play as my ancestors, the scythians, but thats a unit pack. We steppefolk don't like getting scammed out of our hard earned mnai by some uppity publisher that thinks it's disgusting DLC policy is "smart". There's less money in the industry than there should be because consumers are untrusting of scummy companies (ya think?). Well, that ends my magnificent opus odimini. Seriously though, buy the "Complete Edition" (read: the actual whole game) in a few years and save yourself the hundred dollars buying the DLC.