First of all. This analysis has been editted. The original one was pretty negative, and the reason for that were the infite bugs, glitches and unbalances of this game. After so many patches, even tho we may find a considerable quantity of bugs and glitches, it's not game-killing as it was in the days, weeks and months following the launch.

So, finally, here's my review of the game Total War: Rome II.
This game is adicting, because of the simple fact it's good. It has many mechanics that are great!
The graphics, if you're playing on high or ultra quality are AMAZING. Both on SP and MP (by MP I mean battles, they can be campaign vs. AI battles). The camera they have is pretty nice to see charges, not that good on seeing infantry or ranged units, but you still get the emotion.
It has a few nice historical battles, tho more should be added, FOR FREE.
The technology part of it is pretty well made, and the development of your cities if pretty cool. The levelling up system on your general, troops, and agents is really cool, but it doesn't change the game too much. The diplomacy is nice, and one should pay attention to it, as it can save your life. Other positive aspect, the politics. Some factions are cooler to play when talking about politics. Some factions just don't have active politics, tho for all of them politics can change where your empire is turned to. If your family is too strong, the weak will rebel and create a civil war. Too weak? The strong will rebel and create a civil war. But, distributing the power well is not the only thing that changes. When your empire gets big, there'll be a civil war. Be counting on that. And be prepared. You may have to stop all frontier military actions to save your capital and near settlements from the separatists.

Negative: These DLCs they create, they're too expensive just to add/change a few things... At the date near the game release, those who bought the game were forsaken by the producer of the game, making us live in the constant bugs. So, don't expect nice treatment.

Overall I'd say the game is good, not perfect, AI still gets dumb sometimes, but, if you put on a difficulty high enough, it becomes quite a challenge. If you get tired of the game, I recommend you check the workshop out, maybe it has what you need to fire up that urge to play the game again.

Right now, I'd say you think well if you want this game, if you're not sure, wait for a discount, tho, it might never come. Even a 25% discount would be enough to make this game worth your money.

Talking about popularity of the game. Even tho it has been on the 'Most Sold' Steam tab many times, it hasn't got a big community, I'd say mostly because of the game-killing bugs it used to have, and the fact that Single Player Campaign (I don't mean the story campaign) is probably what attracts people most.

My veredict: 8,5/10
If using mods in the game: 9/10

Please comment with your opinion (do not hesitate on using strong language if you hate me) and give me a like.
Have a nice strategic day!