This will be an honest and fair rant. Please scroll to bottom for the fast review. 
***

I'll start this by saying I really like the TW series, I own all TW games and DLCs, plus some CA games that I bought mainly to support the studio. Generally I don't play many other games on Steam. 

Rome 2 was the first TW I was hyped for and wanted to get on release. It is just too diverse, too big not to be entertaining. 
Seeing the buggy mess it was on release I decided to wait a bit and give CA the chance to fix the game. 
Which *spoilers* they never did. 

Now, as someone who enjoys playing even the original Shogun I am not one for graphics. I really liked how they went with all games since Empire and ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥, Medieval 2 still looks great in field battles. But I couldn't care less about the looks. I fell in love with the game mechanics, they clicked right in place with me and I spent numerous hours trying to get to understand them, both ingame and in real life. That's how you know a great video game - you get to constantly think of it when you are not playing it. 

Learning Shogun 2 took me quite some time and I won't win a competition for knowing the game. There are still new things I discover every now and then. They all fall right into spot, close the cycle and it just feels great to come up to the next revelation. 

This is, unfortunately, not the case with Rome II. 

Rome II introduced some new things which are great. Like the army stances. 
So why on Earth does the Fortify stance say "boosts reinforcement range by +50%" and does not do it? 
This is the case with so many faction bonuses, personal traits and retainers, skills, etc, that it's mindblowing. 

When playing games I like to be on fair terms. Get helthpack -> health goes up. Critical strike on enemy -> 50% more damage. Things like this. Things we're used to take for granted. 

Rome II does a really poor job of explaining its mechanics. There are tutorial videos, but they are somehow obsolete as the game received 17 patches, the last one with major core changes. I had to play Attila to understand the whole party politics thing. 

Rome II is big and diverse. And this is a curse more than a blessing. There are so many little things missing, not working or just straight-forward overlooked by the developers, that I won't bother listing them all. Just go to the official support forum and check the Single Player Campaign support page. 

Fairly said, I think Rome II did not ever make it out of beta. 
The reason for this review is that CA stopped supporting the game. A game I paid and bought all dlcs for. A game I really wanted to like. The last patch fixed (arguably) some things, but not merely enough. And that is not even considering all the technical and graphical bugs, which are not a subject of this review. For a moment there I thought they are on the right way, but they just abandoned the game. The game with my favorite time period, that was supposed to revolutionize the TW franchise as the core mechanics weren't changed since Empire. Well, I'm sorry for being mad, but I am. As a user, as a customer. False data, false advertisment and false promises. Thanks CA, I'll gladly pirate your ♥♥♥♥ from now on and not buy a single title. Unless Rome II is fixed that is. 

***
PROS: 
+ Looks great. Some folks may argue here, but for me the game running on Ultra is gorgeous.
+ One of the biggest maps in TW games. Meaning a lot of factions, traits, bonuses, variety in general. 
+ There are some great historical campaigns in addition to the main game that make the title's worth.
+ New mechanics and even controls to make the TW experience more up-to-date.

CONS:
- A bit buggy even after all the patches. Soldier groups will shout different units' lines. No anti-aliasing; water reflection is broken. Some really ugly textures. There's a lot more to that list.
- Unfinished mechanics that clearly can be fun but are not even a factor to work with. 
- Some clearly broken gameplay elements. Bonuses not given though they should be. Traits acting on the opposite. Sometimes your generals will get bad (or good) traits with no apparent reason. 
- Too much DLCs, some arguably not worth their money. 
- Continious lack of support for some of the major elements and problems this game has. 
- Looks like some of the best ideas for Rome II didn't make it in the game and we were sold Attila instead. Which is fine, but everyone can see that Rome II needs some Attila in it. 