Well is this what CA wanted to achieve by creating a game that's based on rock,paper and scissors tactics. 
More and more players wait to see what nation your gonna take and if they don't like it they leave the lobby. 
It's a case of if you bring Sparta or Mecadon,i'll bring a ♥♥♥♥ load of slingers as you'll spam spear or phalax. 
You change from these 2 nations too a decent melee setup to counteract what i pick,i'll bring all archer units and kite or even better 'll just bring the Guals with all noble swordsman & 4 noble cav and just charge as it's seems to be down to who hits the special ability button first when in battle. 
The game is so predictable it's boring there's very little SKILL or STRATEGY to the game and that's very sad as they admitted there mistake in previous title with the retainer system but this sort of game play is even worse. 
Now for the battle itself "WHAT A JOKE"it takes you 5 mins to march your troops then you charge them in and its over,even tired it on large armies where you have 40 units and the time scale remains the same. 
All charge in and hit those special abilties and hope for the best. 
Now games like napoleon or even shogun it's down to the units and your micro management skills as a player. 
You's may not agree with what i've said so go try these 3 simple setups and see what skills you really need to win. 
As for the leaderboard lol the last patch messed this up....it means nothing as a player who has 5 battles can play against a player who has over 200 and be beaten very easy. 
If a 2 star player in nappy played against a 7 star player,he would be destroyed. 
What more can i say i've dedecatid over 60 hrs to this game in the last week and im having to force myself to love it.................................................. 

Plus im sick of crashing to desktop after the last patch when i zoom into the battle or desyncing when in multiplayer. 
I for one would of paid £30 for new maps and units for napoleon not this crap !!! 
CA if you read this just fix your game and not with 20-30mb patchs each week for the next year or 2. 
BETA BATE BETA BETA BETA BETA BETA BETA BETA......CA ARE LIARS & THIEVES

Nothing has changed since i first wrote this review back in sept 2013...i've decided to repost it has the original post disappeared. 
I'm still very very disappointed with C&A as i've been a loyal dedicated fan since medi-evil to the present day.

The link below is the first announcement of the game a week after it's launched priory to the announcment above.
http://steamcommunity.com/groups/THENIGHTCRAWLERSOFTOTALWAR#announcements/detail/1621582846793349768