I really really wanted to like this game, had it since release, have checked it out every now and then. 

But it's simply garbage.... Been streamlined to hell to cater to a larger audiance, which destroyed the essence on which the title thrived in it's previous games. 

Next too that, the game only becomes decent IF next to having spent 60 bucks on basically a broken game on release, you pay an other 100 bucks to gain all DLC. 

I somewhat like the improvements on the campaign map, but hate it at the same time. You can't even build wooden walls for your smaller settlements. On the other hand, your forced to specialize towns, which gives them all their own stratigic value, something that was missing in previous Total War games. 

AI is horrible, and I mean a step backwards from Shogun's AI, as in, will walk into 3 units of phalanx head on never attempt to flank bad.... 

O did I mention Phalanxes where broke on release and could be slaughtered by peasants ? Yes heavily armored troops, some of the heaviest in the world and amongst the most discplined, could be slaughtered by peasants.... 

Battles feel rushed and because units break like crazy, grand tactics are out of the window, it's all about bring heavier units then your enemy.

In fact, it's become more of a economy simulator (and before they patched the building tree's a horrible on at that). 

And after 2 years, all they done is stream line the game some more and add back functions we had in every total war game, like fire at will and hold ground (yes you are reading this right, that was NOT added in release). 

I've only gotten around to write my review now because i'm so utterly sickend by the game for which I was waiting forever. 

If they updated the orginal Romes graphics and released that for 60 bucks I would have been more satisfied. 

Even the basic path finding on the campaign map is broke. If you move a army that would be faster embarking into ships and then sailing over and landing, prepare for the path finding to screw up and take your army 4 additional turns over land. 

And then there is unit collision, which wasn't there in Release, which basically lead to major mosh pits, when battle where at the time won by formations and discpline. It was just a laugh. Now they have fixed it by forcing units to stay in formation and everything, but it's obvious it's not something the actual engine itself does. So basically the game is running on a engine that is not suited for the game at all. Yet ever since Empire they stubornly hold onto this engine, and with Shogun they got away with it because they polished it so well you didn't notice it. But F me Creative, get the hint already! Either update your engine to support it or pick a better suited engine! 

We want our realistic like combat, Total War is picked because of that, if we want Arcade combat, we have a 100 games that do a better job then Total War will, stop trying to cater to people who shouldn't be touching this game to begin with, all you do is drive away the people who do love these types of games. 

3/10 I do not recommand you buy this unless it's on a sale and you have to pay less then 10 bucks. It's not worth more and you better get some free DLC's with it. 

Also, don't try and criticize them on their own official forums, all honest criticism is basically disregarded and removed within a heartbeat.