''It's a solid game''. "It has its moments.''' ''It's competent''. You see, I was searching to express the good parts of Rome 2 and I' can't quite reach the words ''It's awesome, get it now'' , like I would about most other Total War titles. That must mean that I'm mixed about Rome 2 and after some pondering, I don't think I'll recommend it to my friends. 

Rome 2 is in itself a solidly designed strategy and if it weren't for the other titles in the series, I'd probably like it more. It certainly has a few things going for it: 

It's different and modernised enough so that you don't feel like it's the same as its predecessors, the battles are mostly entertaining, modern graphics, and there are some nice design additions:

They've introduced a system where armies level up and gain traits, even though they need to stock up on new recruits they retain their "unit tradition". A good addition that mimics the way real life legions retained their own unit's traditions, stories, habits and in-jokes over time. Case in point: Legio IX Hispana, "The Ninth" , about which a few novels and films where made.

Agents and generals matter a lot now and you can level them up in different ways, which makes you pay much more attention to individuals. 

Some design decisions are a bit wonky: they've done away with the family tree, which removes immersion from your lineage. The political system is good in theory but fairly annoying in practice, everyone hates you anyway. You now have a limit to the number of your armies which takes away a lot of the fun of managing your empire. The building system is convoluted and ultimately not engaging.

Ultimately, my biggest gripe with R2 is that I feel it lacks in flair and immersion. The little things add up, from the interface, the music and the unit cards and limited rosters, to the fact that it all feels 'game-y', from the weird build&tech trees to the general abilities and the all-too-many unit stats. There's no real passion for the ancient era flowing from R2, it could just as easily be a Heroes title or some other decent strategy game.

It's not a bad game, it's just... the other Total Wars are better, so why play this one?