Total War: Rome II (Or just RTW2) is a game of two halves. One half is filled with potential, graphical accomplishments and a sense of community through the additions in the Workshop.

The other half is a mess of bugs, poor balance and a total lack of attachment to a campaign. Bugs on release and balance issues have been part of Total War since the days of RTW1, but not after 20 patches and certainly not with the level of game-breaking effects present even nearly a year later after I pre-ordered it.

The attachment is where it really hurts for me as a long time fan. Shogun Total War II made you feel attached to every member of your clan, they each gained skills and traits that made them feel genuinely unique. Rome Total War 1 was arguably the epitome of this though, with sprawling family trees and a real sense that you were taking a Roman family (or an enemy of Rome) through one of the greatest eras of history. Now most turns feel like a slog, destroying factions is commonplace thanks to the huge number of seperate areas, and characters all end up with similar traits (If everyone in my faction likes Romans then it's not really a very unique feeling to each person).

Siege bugs are the worst I've seen in an RTS game, missile units sometimes don't fire and melee battles sometimes just look like two blobs fighting eachother. Naval Battles, while initially absolutely awful, have been improved but still feel totally void of character or any real sense of strategy. Mods solve some of these issues, but the game appears to irrepairable without the right combination of mods that match the the patch your at. 

In short, I cannot recommend it. It's easily the worst Total War game ever made and has essentially killed any chance of me pre-ordering a Creative Assembly game again

EDIT: There have been several complaints on this review about my amount of playtime and how I should change my opinion based on it. I didn't spent £40 on a game to abandon it and just leave it with a bad review. I came back patch after patch, including the most recent Emperor Edition, not because I would tell someone to buy it but because I want to be ABLE to. Creative Assembly are a company I support, still support, but unless reviewers like myself make it very clear that this game was not an acceptable release and still isn't mistakes will be repeated in newer titles.

Complaints about my playtime will be deleted from the review.