(Before you read)

The game runs well now. But my main issue with the game is the lack of immersion... the hurrendous dlc, the game engine itself.. the games horrid, its 3 step backwards from shogun etc, boring and streamlined, theres no depth.. . many features are still broken and irreparable, like the function of generals, or the use of siege equipment.... the fact that this game is available on Ipad is a joke in itself. 

Buy it if you're looking to see a few battles from the classical time period.. but dont expect any challenge from it, the games boring, unimmersive, broken, offensive and creative assembly are having a ♥♥♥♥♥♥ laugh if they think making 40 quid worth of dlc for one of the most dissapointing games of all time.. is at all acceptable. They have moked not only the fans, but history itself.


I have been waiting for this game since I ever layed eyes on the first installment, back in 2004. A younger me would lay at night and dream about Rome 2 in all its glory... after my dream games announcment I quite literally jumped with joy! No words can express how excited and stimulated I was on the day of release.. I hadnt been this excited for a game since Skyrim.. unfortunatley I clicked play and instead, had an enormous peverted vanular fallas strike me between the eyes soo hard I thought not only my life had been extinguished, but the very reality we exist in, THIS GAME IS A BLOODY DISGRACE! AND THE ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ TWO FACED MONEY GRABBING LIARS AT CA SHOULD BE ASHAMED!!!

Regardless of the initial bugs (CURRENTLY ON PATCH 7!!!), the game itself is a broken, shambolic, overpriced piece of rushed nonsense. The AI is awful, the worst its ever been, the ui has been destroyed and there is no immersion whatsoever... the campaign is dull and lifeless, with many broken features, such as pointless generals and a diplomacy system which leaves you in fits of frustration.. im not even going to start on the sea battles, lets just say I broke down and cried during one, at the fact that CA had the sheer ♥♥♥♥ing ordasity to reveal this to anyone other than children.... not to mention the ♥♥♥♥ing unbalanced and historically inaccurate depictions of just about every faction in the game.. I will for the first time ever seriously consider whether or not to buy the next installment in the series.

Sure they added a couple of nice features such as regional management and larger navies etc... But EVERYTHING ELSE is worse off...and the two things i've mentioned are buggy and in my opinion irreperable, they stripped hundreds of features from the previous games! WHY!??? where are the cutscenes? the immersion? the family trees? the music? the voice actors? the siege eqipment? AND ♥♥♥♥ OF TORCHES FOR EVERY UNIT!!?? RIDICULOUS! Pike units only reveal their pikes when in phalanx, units are unbalanced, slingers are too common and overpowered... the list is endless...

As for Multiplayer.... christ.. It might aswell not have it, barebones and immpossible to play coop due to loading times! In addition tactical vantage points such as hills and forested areas offer no benefit, removing almost all form of strategy from the game.. 

Ive patche it, ive modded and invested 100 hours and still havent been able to change my mind, IF YOUR READING THIS DONT BUY THE DLC !!! be content with what you have, ROME 1 is a far superior game!

FInally I HAVE HAD IT WITH THIS ENGINE! There is no unit collision! they all just awkwardly slide against one another, ♥♥♥♥ing mosh pit and then execute singular kill moves with added athletisism.. it just looks ridiculous and is totally unrealistic! Empire got away with it as it was mainly musket warfare! CREATIVE ASSEMBLY NEEDS TO START OVER!!! fighting in this period was all about fromations!! how do you think Alexander defeated Darius at Galgumea or The Romans againtss Budicca when they where outnumbered 10-1, ♥♥♥♥ING FORMATIONS!!!! NOT MOSH PITS!@@#@

It is blatantly clear that the folks up at CA just don't give a ♥♥♥♥ anymore, and would much prefer screwing us all over for a quick buck, ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥s.. :(

from a depressed and infuriated fan of total war since 2004... have a nice day :) DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!