50 Hours into your latest save, all is going well. Only 3 leaders left Gandhi, Caesar and Washington.
you draft an 'end game' plan in your mind, you will make friends with Gandhi (for obvious reasons he's chill) then procede to befriend Caesar.

Then you will take out Washington because he is a ♥♥♥♥ and did not accept an open border agreement 3000 years prior HE MUST PAY. 20 turns later all is going to plan, we are now on Washingtons doorstep, Gandhi and Caesar appear to love and probably fear your superpower nation. All we need to do is eliminate the pesky Americans and ith all our military now on American soil this should not take long.

Then after the swift invasion of America we will make a vote for world peace at the U.N (in rome of course) with our new found Indian and Roman brethren it is a sure win!
But all of a sudden the distant droning of nuclear sirens start, quickly they become louder and louder, "what is this!?" you think to yourself, a false alarm? You shrug it off maybe Caesae bombing a city state.

The game pauses... Gandhi appears on the screen, with a sinister grin he shouts "WAR" in your face. Only seconds after you see a gut wrenching sight. The camera focuses on a nuclear submarine stationed just off the coast of your pride and joy, the capital of your glorious nation.

You then hear a rumble, just seconds after a nuclear warhead emerges from the previously hidden submarine, you realise it is too late... you can only watch as the missle closes in. As your city goes up in a giant cloud there are short lived screams from your beloved people, then silence.

Before what had just occurred had sunk in, before you could make rescue efforts to save your much loved citizens the humming of quiet engines fall upon your ears. Suddenly countless 'stealth bombers' appear seemingly out of no where, soon the sky is blackened by planes, the game falls almost silent only the whistle of falling bombs remains. You faint from the shock of what is unfolding.

You awake shortly after, Gandhi is still flattening what remains of your once prosperous empire, now with 'giant death robots' making the most of his seemingly never ending turn. As Gandhi clinically and relentlessly razes what's left of your broken nation all you can do is weep, your people hacked down in their prime and your glorious nation so mighty just minutes before has just been been all but eliminated in 1 turn.

Why oh why did you turn of autosave? did it really speed your game up? was it worth it?

Ghandi is a complete ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥, he acts like your friend but WILL nuke the ♥♥♥♥ out of you if even the slightest oppurtunity presents itself. 10/10