I was playing Civ, and I only just realized how amazing this game is after playing it for so long.

First... allow me to set the mood. The year was 1700-something. France, the only civilization who was even close to challenging my might as the leader of the powerful empire of Japan, was being landgrabby and attacking my allies, so I, being the superpower that I was as leader of Japan, decided to ride in and knock him down a few pegs (and by that I mean conquer five of his cities, isolate his capital from the rest of the world, annex three of the five cities we conquered, and give the other two to my nearby allies the Iroquois, who razed one.) Napoleon, of course, denounced me, but the rest of the world was like “Japan saved our asses from your entitled ways, so you can go ♥♥♥♥ yourself, shorty.” Then I high-fived the Iroquois because Hiawatha and I were besties.

Fast forward 100 turns and roughly 200 ingame years: Napoleon’s grabbing land again, but this time it’s the land of city-states around him, because I decimated his military so badly that he honestly would’ve killed himself going after any major civs. Being the superpower that I am, I immediately rush to the aid of these city-states, but I realize that I can’t afford to risk war because the other civs would start to think I was just abusing my power.

So I secretly provide the city-state Budapest, who is at this point in a state of permanent war with France, with two Mechanized Infantry - a solid two AGES ahead of France’s cannons and horsemen. Budapest successfully repels the French invasion, and becomes my ally. I do the same with the city-state of Stockholm when they’re attacked by Darius, who I previously attacked and captured one of the cities of because Darius was an irrational, entitled prick of a leader who had decided that everything to the west of his land (aka MY land) is rightfully his. Stockholm, to the east of Darius, successfully repels Darius’s invasion. But Stockholm doesn’t stop there. Apparently, Darius’s military is so incredibly weak that one of his own cities falls to Stockholm’s new advanced technology.

Stockholm razed the city.

I just kind of smirked, at this point. Darius just got what was coming to him, so I thought to myself, "I'll go on my merry way, making more and more city-states my allies and “protecting” them from the menace of France - and each other. This system obviously works, and these city-states supply me with enough that maintaining my relationships with them is well worth it."

Fast forward a few turns and roughly ten ingame years. My buddies the Iroquois publically denounce me, telling the entire world that I’m not to be trusted. These were the guys who I not only saved from Napoleon, but gave two entire CITIES to. I was, of course, angry, but shrugged it off and kept going - I had a science victory to get to and couldn't let them get in my way, and if I were to teach them a lesson for their "irrational behavior", it would only solidify their claims in the eyes of the rest of the world. A science victory would require me to devote much more energy to the production of scientific advancements and certain buildings required to accomplish this goal than I would be able to afford if I had a war or two on my hands.

Then I realized something - Budapest had been churning out things like SAMs, armored tanks, rocket artillery, things far beyond anyone's technological progress but my own, and giving most of it (but by no means all of it) to me, their ally and sworn protector. Of course I didn’t realize the implications of this until Darius (remember Darius?) denounced me, too. I didn’t think anything of it because that guy was always denouncing me, but then I remembered when Stockholm razed his city and something clicks - I’m singlehandedly responsible for that, as well as the decimation of the French countryside by Budapest’s new military forces, which I also viewed as righteous retribution, in a sense.

The French had been weakened so badly already, but Budapest was in a state of CONSTANT WAR with them. Even being passive and supplying them with resources and the occasional few pieces of gold was tearing France apart.
Stockholm’s razing of Darius’s city was because of me. What I hadn't counted on was the Iroquois realizing that for themselves, let alone their negative reaction to it. I mean, I had been protecting the little guy, maybe even the good guy, the whole time! Stockholm... would've been wiped out if I had just stood by and watched... right?

But Darius's military was, as I had proved, too weak to wipe out a colony of ants without foreign aid, and I had supplied their mortal enemies, Stockholm, with ♥♥♥♥ing ARMORED TANKS.

Stockholm also happened to be right near Hiawatha’s land, and was never *my* ally despite the units I gave them. In fact... They had been marauding near the outskirts of the Iroquois borders ever since I gave them the military technology they “needed” to “defeat” Darius’s “invasion”.

I had singlehandedly thrown half the world into a state of complete and total chaos without even realizing it, and even believed that I was a savior and that I had done a good deed, ending with the complete and total ruination of not just half the world, but even the alliances I had built up over hundreds of ingame years of diplomacy, with all the other world leaders distrusting or blatantly loathing Japan.

Just the fact that this is possible in this game at such a low, *casual* difficulty despite how simplistic the game appears on the surface is wonderful, and I didn't even MENTION the gameplay, the strategic depth, the multiplayer, the absolutely-♥♥♥♥ing-everything - I could go on and on about this game, every aspect is wonderful. I love it. I honestly can't bring myself to say anything bad about it - this is, without question, my favorite TBS game of all time. Ten out of ♥♥♥♥ing ten, absolutely brilliant.

edit: I wrote this forever ago (read: like a year) and as much as i'm cringing at my past self's writing I still agree with it, so that should tell you something about this game if you're still not convinced