I am the peaceful nation of the Celts.

We shall be the nation of religion, and of diplomacy.

This went well; we ended up next to the Babylonians, and we expanded nicely in peace. However, I have always believed in "dibs", so I placed down Glasgow onto the land between us, to provide a little buffer. They seemed annoyed by this. A few warriors glared at each other across our borders for a few hundred years, but otherwise, nothing too bad happened.

In order to spread our religion further (because we were known for our Confucian beliefs which helped us grow our borders and spread our religion faster), we begin to invest in boats. Soon we covered the oceans in missionaries, Inquisitor and warriors to help defend our religious allies.

Babylon was making friends with a local city state, Genoa. However, they were trying to spread Zoroastrianism; those heathens! Despite both our religions being known for their peace, we passive-aggressively sent missionary and Inquisitor to Genoa. Over the course of about 700 years, we had probably burned a few thousand people for swapping religions; those same Warriors had been given spears now, but they continue to glare at each other from across the borders.

I offer Babylon some sugar for their spice; they wanted my sugar, iron, coal and all of my money. I then asked Germany if they wanted sugar for spice; they accepted.

North of me, Rome had begun a war with France. Due to my time of peace and massive amounts of trade, I found myself with a huge amount of money. Everytime France and Rome made peace, I knew that Rome was beginning to look on my relatively peaceful country with greedy eyes. So I bought... I gifted many city states my religion and gold, and then I bought... gifted France and Germany enough money to declare with with Rome.

While they fought, my Spearmen (now Musketmen) continued to glare with Babylon's, and we continued our 1500 year religious passive-aggression over Genoa. They said I was spying on them; I said I wouldn't. When my spies returned, I sent them back to Babylon. A squad of 5 Great Prophets charged into Babylon, converting left, right and centre. Babylon complained I was being a bit aggressive. I apologised. I then sent more missionaries to Babylon.

I had now found every single Civilization; we decided to have a United Nations meeting in 1600A.D. I, as the host, gave everyone a single vote. Except myself. I gave myself 16, due to my popularity. I declared my religion to be the world religion. Every one opposed. I listened to their opinions, and then passed it anyway. When Rome got angry about this, I then paid France to declare war again. When Babylon got angry, I then paid Rome to declare war on them.

My civilians were amazingly happy; hugely more than any other place. But because I was an Emperor, they declared me Declis the Terrible; despite my universal healthcare, happy citizens, peaceful religion, not a single war in my entire history and massive popularity in the word. My army consisted of mostly my friends, my city states, and my Musketmen (now Great War Infantry) continued to glare at the Babylonian Great War Infantry, after 2000+ years. A great duty to my nation, their descendants shall continue to frown at the Babylonians until the civilizations of the world fall.

Eventually we reached a grand United Nations meeting; I sat on one side of the chamber with my 12 City State friends, and the other 7 nations glared at me from the other side. I said that the People's Confucian Republican Empire of Scotland was the best nation in the world.

They all voted against me. I smiled, and then declared I won anyway.

Democracy is overrated. Freedom of religion only applies to my religion. I don't need to be stronger when I'm more popular (and my people are probably more beautiful). And if you don't like me, I'll pay your best friend to backstab you.

Through this, I came to understand American foreign policy. So Civilization is if nothing else, an educational tool.