SID MEIER'S CIVILISATION V - Just one more turn?

|| 9 ||
	Score 	Comment
Graphics 	8 	Visuals are simple but pleasing, good textures on the landscape tiles, nicely detailed units with lots of variety, good animations and an intuitive unobtrusive UI. Zooming in and out on units, cities and terrain allows you see all the little details while also giving you the ability to see the "big picture" strategic view. Graphics are vastly improved from previous games in the series. If I had one wish I guess it would be to have your cities and their buildings represented better visually. Cities grow and spread with population and advance with technology/era and have several different styles depending on the nation you select, and the building of wonders will add the wonder to the area surrounding your city but it would be great to have further customisation of your cities so you could really make them your own. The Civilopedia (like an in game wiki) is a little difficult to navigate and while informative could use some work.
Audio 	8 	Game Music is relaxing and fitting, from the dawn of civilisation, the age of exploration or the grand age of empire building it just seems to work well and I very rarely feel the need to turn down the music volume (as I do with other games). The ambient sound is excellent, move your screen to a coastal area and you will hear the wash of the sea, select your boats and you will here the crack of oars or ring of their bell. The little touches and details like these really make the game a joy to play.
Gameplay 	9 	Civilisation is a turn based 4X (eXplore, eXpand, eXploit, eXterminate) game, a game of grand strategy & micromanagement, a game where the objective is to grown your civilisation and eventually conquer all through Technology, Culture, Diplomacy and Military might. This is by no means a simple game, it takes time to truly learn and fully appreciate but once you get into a game your hooked. Civilisation is by far the most addictive game (maybe with the exception of certain MMORGP's) out there. The "just one more turn" is a running joke because you will often find yourself planning on playing just one more turn to build something or win a battle and then you will look to the clock and find several hours have past. The start of the game is exciting, turns move quickly and you see your planning quickly realised, mid game you must continue your expansion and put in place what you will need to win. The only place where I feel this game falls down is late in the game, by this point sometimes there will be a clear winner, technology advancement will slow and your empire will often be so massive and units so numerous that just taking your turn can take quite a lot of time. Overall though gameplay is outstanding. The AI can be a little quirky at times but for the most part is challenging and tactically sound. Relationships between civilisations are all based on their predisposition and events which occur throughout the game and can therefore be somewhat predictable.
Story 	8 	The Story of history rewritten, the story of civilisation, so many details make up this game and so much background history on every aspect (via the civilopedia). The DLC add's on (amongst other things) quests which add to the story but in truth these add little to the game. The narrative is really what you make it, the interaction between the leaders of the other civilisations, all struggling for power, the alliances and conflicts mean there is very rarely a time of true peace or a dull moment.
Replayability 	10 	Fully customisable random maps, different scenarios, different civilisations and leaders. Make your own maps and scenarios, full integrated into steam workshop with hundreds of brilliant mods. It all adds up to a different experience each time and near infinite replayability.
Multiplayer 	6 	This is not an easy game to play multiplayer, the nature of the game means that you will all need a large amount of time to play a game through to completion, which may be problematic (especially with friends in different timezones or for people with connection issues). The most enjoyable aspect of multiplayer I found was the hotseat mode. In this mode you play locally and multiple players take the game in turns (like a boardgame), once again the time required to get near the end means you could be in for a very long (but very enjoyable) game.
Overall
9 	While some purists will prefer the earlier Civ games in the series, I feel that Civ 5 (and especially with the main DLCs) is a worthy successor. It has the right level of difficulty and depth, much improved visuals and solid gameplay which will make you wonder where the hours went. 